American crime drama television series (2008–2013)
For other uses, see Breaking Bad (disambiguation).


Breaking BadGenre
Crime drama
Serial drama
Thriller[1]
Neo-Western[2][3]
Black comedy[4]
Tragedy[5][6]
Created byVince GilliganStarring
Bryan Cranston
Anna Gunn
Aaron Paul
Dean Norris
Betsy Brandt
RJ Mitte
Giancarlo Esposito
Bob Odenkirk
Jonathan Banks
Laura Fraser
Jesse Plemons
ComposerDave PorterCountry of originUnited StatesOriginal languages
English
Spanish
No. of seasons5No. of episodes62 (list of episodes)ProductionExecutive producers
Vince Gilligan
Mark Johnson
Michelle MacLaren
Producers
Stewart A. Lyons
Sam Catlin
John Shiban
Peter Gould
George Mastras
Thomas Schnauz
Melissa Bernstein
Diane Mercer
Bryan Cranston
Moira Walley-Beckett
Karen Moore
Patty Lin
Production locationAlbuquerque, New MexicoCinematography
Michael Slovis
Reynaldo Villalobos
Arthur Albert
John Toll
Nelson Cragg
Marshall Adams
Editors
Kelley Dixon
Skip Macdonald
Chris McCaleb
Sharidan Williams-Sotelo
Lynne Willingham
Running time43–58 minutesProduction companies
High Bridge Entertainment
Gran Via Productions
Sony Pictures Television
Budget$3 million per episodeOriginal releaseNetworkAMCReleaseJanuary 20, 2008 (2008-01-20) –September 29, 2013 (2013-09-29)Related
Talking Bad
Metástasis
Better Call Saul
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie

Breaking Bad is  an American crime drama television series created and produced by Vince Gilligan for AMC. Set and filmed in Albuquerque, New Mexico, the series follows Walter White (Bryan Cranston), an underpaid, dispirited high-school chemistry teacher struggling with a recent diagnosis of stage-three lung cancer. White turns to a life of crime and partners with a former student, Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul), to produce and distribute methamphetamine to secure his family's financial future before he dies, while navigating the dangers of the criminal underworld. Breaking Bad premiered on AMC on January 20, 2008, and concluded on September 29, 2013, after five seasons consisting of 62 episodes.
Among the show's co-stars are Anna Gunn and RJ Mitte as Walter's wife Skyler and son Walter Jr., and Betsy Brandt and Dean Norris as Skyler's sister Marie Schrader and her husband Hank, a DEA agent. Others include Bob Odenkirk as Walter's and Jesse's lawyer Saul Goodman, Jonathan Banks as private investigator and fixer Mike Ehrmantraut, and Giancarlo Esposito as drug kingpin Gus Fring. The final season introduces Jesse Plemons as the criminally ambitious Todd Alquist, and Laura Fraser as Lydia Rodarte-Quayle, a cunning business executive.
Breaking Bad's first season received generally positive reviews, while the subsequent seasons received unanimous critical acclaim, with praise for the performances, direction, cinematography, writing, story, and character development. Since its conclusion, the show has been lauded by critics as one of the greatest television series of all time. It has also developed a cult following.[7] The show had fair viewership in its first three seasons, but the fourth and fifth seasons saw a moderate rise in viewership when it was made available on Netflix just before the fourth season premiere. Viewership increased exponentially upon the premiere of the second half of the fifth season in 2013. By the time that the series finale aired, it was among the most-watched cable shows on American television. The show received numerous awards, including 16 Primetime Emmy Awards, eight Satellite Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, two Peabody Awards, two Critics' Choice Awards, and four Television Critics Association Awards. Cranston won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series four times, while Aaron Paul won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series three times; Anna Gunn won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series twice. In 2013, Breaking Bad entered the Guinness World Records as the most critically acclaimed TV show of all time. In 2023, Breaking Bad was ranked as the best TV series in the last 25 years by critics in a poll conveyed by Rotten Tomatoes.[8]
The series gave rise to the larger Breaking Bad franchise. Better Call Saul, a prequel series featuring Odenkirk, Banks, and Esposito reprising their Breaking Bad roles, as well as many others in guest and recurring appearances, debuted on AMC on February 8, 2015, and concluded on August 15, 2022. A sequel film, El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, starring Paul, was released on Netflix and in theaters on October 11, 2019.


Premise[edit]
The show takes place in Albuquerque, New Mexico, between 2008 and 2010.[9] Breaking Bad follows Walter White, a struggling, frustrated high school chemistry teacher who transforms into a ruthless kingpin in the local methamphetamine drug trade, driven to provide for his family financially after being diagnosed with inoperable lung cancer. Initially making only small batches of meth with his former student Jesse Pinkman in a rolling meth lab, Walter and Jesse eventually expand to make larger batches of an extremely pure, blue meth which creates high demand. Walter takes on the name "Heisenberg" to mask his identity. Because of his drug-related activities, Walter eventually finds himself at odds with his family, the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) through his brother-in-law Hank Schrader, the local gangs, and the Mexican drug cartels (including their regional distributors), putting him and his family's lives at risk.

Cast and characters[edit]
Main article: List of characters in the Breaking Bad franchise
Breaking Bad cast and crew (left to right): creator Vince Gilligan, RJ Mitte (Walter White Jr.), Aaron Paul (Jesse Pinkman), Anna Gunn (Skyler White), Bryan Cranston (Walter White), Dean Norris (Hank Schrader), and producer Mark Johnson
Main characters[edit]
Bryan Cranston as Walter White, a high-school chemistry teacher who, shortly after his 50th birthday, is diagnosed with Stage III lung cancer and turns to making meth to secure his family's finances. As his shady business progresses, Walter gains a notorious reputation under the alias of "Heisenberg". Cranston stated that, though he enjoyed doing comedy, he decided he ... should really focus on doing something else. But I think any good drama worth its weight always has a sprinkling of comedy in it, because you can ease the tension to an audience when it's necessary, and then build it back up again. Walt White has no clue he's occasionally funny, but as an actor, I recognize when there are comedic moments and opportunities.[10]
Anna Gunn as Skyler White, Walter's wife who was pregnant with their second child before his diagnosis and who becomes increasingly suspicious of her husband after he begins behaving in unfamiliar ways. Gunn sees Skyler as "grounded, tough, smart and driven". Gunn sees Skyler's stalled writing career as her biggest dream, saying, "I think she really deep down yearns to be an artist and to be creative and productive."[11]
Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman, Walter's cooking partner and former student. Paul sees Jesse as a funny kid. "He's just this lost soul – I don't think he's a bad kid, he just got mixed in the wrong crowd." Paul elaborated on the character's background, saying, "He doesn't come from an abusive, alcoholic background. But maybe he just didn't relate to his father, maybe his father was too strict and too proper for Jesse." Paul compared the character's relationship with Walt to The Odd Couple.[12]
Dean Norris as Hank Schrader, Marie's husband, Walter and Skyler's brother-in-law and a DEA agent. At the beginning of the series, Hank was intended to be the "comic relief".[13]
Betsy Brandt as Marie Schrader, Skyler's sister and Hank's kleptomaniac wife. Brandt described Marie as "an unpleasant bitch", but also stated that there was more to her than that. "I think we're seeing more of it now that she would be there for her family. But it's all about her."[14]
RJ Mitte as Walter White Jr., Walter and Skyler's son, who has cerebral palsy. He begins lashing out after Walter's cancer announcement. Mitte himself has cerebral palsy, although his is a milder form.[15] Mitte stated that he had to regress from his therapy to portray the character, staying up late into the night to slur his speech and learning to walk on crutches so that his walking would not look fake.[16]
Giancarlo Esposito as Gustavo "Gus" Fring (seasons 3–4; guest season 2), a Chilean high-level drug distributor who has a cover as an owner of the fast-food chain Los Pollos Hermanos. Esposito stated that for the third season, he incorporated his yoga training in his performance. Gus is the coolest cucumber that ever walked the Earth. I think about Eddie Olmos way back in Miami Vice. He was like dead – he was hardly breathing. I thought, how is this guy just standing in this fire and doing nothing? Gus has totally allowed me that level of flexibility and relaxation – not because he has ultimate power and he knows he can take someone's life. He's just confident.[17]
Bob Odenkirk as Saul Goodman (seasons 3–5; recurring season 2), a crooked strip mall lawyer who represents Walt and Jesse. Odenkirk drew inspiration for Goodman from film producer Robert Evans. I thought about Robert Evans because I've listened to The Kid Stays in the Picture on CD. He's constantly switching up his cadence and his delivery. He emphasizes interesting words. He has loads of attitude in almost every line that he says. So when I rehearse the scenes alone I do my impersonation of Robert Evans to find those moments and turns. Then I go out and I do Saul.[18]
Jonathan Banks as Mike Ehrmantraut (seasons 3–5A; guest season 2), works for Gus as an all-purpose cleaner and hitman, and also works for Saul as a private investigator. The character of Mike has been compared to Harvey Keitel's Winston Wolf character in Pulp Fiction, which Banks says he is not trying to emulate: "I immediately tried to put it out of my mind, quite honestly. His cleaner ain't my cleaner. But throughout this world, you would suspect there had been a great many cleaners, whether government-run or individual contractors."[19]
Laura Fraser as Lydia Rodarte-Quayle (season 5B; recurring season 5A), a high-ranking employee of Madrigal Electromotive and a former associate of Gus Fring. She reluctantly begins supplying Walt and Jesse with methylamine and helps Walt expand his operation overseas.
Jesse Plemons as Todd Alquist (season 5B; recurring season 5A), an employee of Vamonos Pest Control who becomes an associate of Walt and Jesse.
Recurring characters[edit]
Steven Michael Quezada as Steven "Gomey" Gomez – Hank's DEA partner and best friend, who assists in tracking down and learning the identity of Heisenberg. In comical situations between him and Hank, Gomez serves as the "straight man".
Matt Jones as Brandon "Badger" Mayhew – Jesse's drug-addicted, dimwitted friend who often serves as the series's comic relief.
Charles Baker as Skinny Pete – A loyal friend of Jesse's and a fellow pusher who worked with Jesse.
Rodney Rush as Christian "Combo" Ortega – Also a friend of Jesse and a fellow pusher.
Jessica Hecht and Adam Godley as Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz – Co-owners of Gray Matter, a company that they co-founded alongside Walter, who left the business prior to its major success. Gretchen was a former flame of Walt's and partially the reason he left.
Raymond Cruz as Tuco Salamanca – A sociopathic Mexican drug kingpin who becomes Walt and Jesse's meth distributor.
Mark Margolis as Hector Salamanca – A former high-ranking member of the Juarez Cartel who is now unable to walk or speak because of a stroke, communicating with the help of a bell. He is the uncle of Tuco, Marco, and Leonel Salamanca.
Christopher Cousins as Ted Beneke – Skyler's boss and president of Beneke Fabricators who begins developing financial problems, resulting in an intervention from Skyler.
Krysten Ritter as Jane Margolis – Jesse's apartment manager and girlfriend, who is a recovering addict.
John de Lancie as Donald Margolis – Jane Margolis's father, an air traffic controller.
David Costabile as Gale Boetticher – A chemist hired by Gus Fring to work alongside Walter.
Daniel Moncada and Luis Moncada as Leonel and Marco Salamanca – Two ruthless and taciturn hitmen for the Juarez Cartel who are the cousins of Tuco Salamanca and the nephews of Hector Salamanca.
Javier Grajeda as Juan Bolsa – A high-ranking member of the Juarez Cartel who acts as the mediator between the Salamancas and Gus Fring.
Emily Rios as Andrea Cantillo – Jesse's second girlfriend, who is also a recovering addict. She has a young son named Brock.
Jeremiah Bitsui as Victor – A loyal henchman to Gus who serves as his enforcer along with Mike.
Ray Campbell as Tyrus Kitt – Gus's enforcer along with Mike during season 4.
Lavell Crawford as Huell Babineaux – Saul's bodyguard who also handles problems Walter needs fixing.
Tina Parker as Francesca Liddy – Saul Goodman's receptionist.
Bill Burr as Patrick Kuby – A hired con man of Saul's who handles various sensitive tasks involving verbal intimidation, coercion, and misdirection.
Michael Bowen as Jack Welker – Todd's uncle and the leader of the Aryan Brotherhood, a white supremacist gang.
Kevin Rankin as Kenny – Jack's second-in-command.
Special guest appearances[edit]
Danny Trejo as Tortuga – A Mexican cartel member and DEA informant.
DJ Qualls as Getz – An Albuquerque police officer who brings Badger into police custody, prompting Walt to turn to Saul Goodman.
Jim Beaver as Lawson – An Albuquerque arms dealer who obtains several guns for Walt.
Steven Bauer as Don Eladio Vuente – The leader of the Juarez Cartel who has a history with Gus.
Robert Forster as Ed Galbraith – A vacuum cleaner repairman whose undercover business is a new identity specialist.
Charlie Rose as himself.
Production[edit]
Conception[edit]
Breaking Bad was created by Vince Gilligan, who had spent several years writing the Fox series The X-Files. Gilligan wanted to create a series in which the protagonist became the antagonist. "Television is historically good at keeping its characters in a self-imposed stasis so that shows can go on for years or even decades", he said. "When I realized this, the logical next step was to think, how can I do a show in which the fundamental drive is toward change?"[20] He added that his goal with Walter White was to turn him from Mr. Chips into Scarface.[21][22][23] Gilligan believed the concept of showing the full drastic transformation of a character across the run of a television show was a risky concept and would be difficult to pitch without other powerful factors to support it, such as strong cinematography and acting.[24]
The show's title is a Southern colloquialism meaning, among other things, "raising hell", and was chosen by Gilligan to describe Walter's transformation.[25] According to Time entertainment editor Lily Rothman, the term has a broader meaning and is an old phrase which "connotes more violence than 'raising hell' does ... [T]he words possess a wide variety of nuances: to 'break bad' can mean to 'go wild', to 'defy authority', and break the law, to be verbally 'combative, belligerent, or threatening' or, followed by the preposition 'on', 'to dominate or humiliate'."[26]
The concept emerged as Gilligan talked with his fellow X-Files writer Thomas Schnauz regarding their current unemployment and joked that the solution was for them to put a "meth lab in the back of an RV and [drive] around the country cooking meth and making money".[27]
After writing the concept for the show and pilot, Gilligan pitched it to Sony Pictures Television, who became very interested in supporting it. Sony arranged for meetings with the various cable networks. Showtime passed on this, as they had already started broadcasting Weeds, a show with similarities to the premise of Breaking Bad.[28] While his producers convinced him that the show was different enough to still be successful, Gilligan later stated that he would not have gone forward with the idea had he known about Weeds earlier.[29] Other networks like HBO and TNT also passed on the idea, but eventually FX took interest and began initial discussions on producing the pilot.[28] At the same time, FX had also started development of Dirt, a female-centric crime-based drama series, and with three existing male-centric shows already on the network, FX passed up Breaking Bad for Dirt.[28]
One of Gilligan's agents spoke to Jeremy Elice, the director of original programming for AMC who was looking for more original shows to add alongside their upcoming Mad Men. Elice was intrigued, and soon a meeting was set up between Gilligan, Elice, and two programming executives. Gilligan was not optimistic about this meeting, fearing they would just put him off, but instead all three showed great interest, and the meeting ended up establishing how AMC would acquire the rights from FX and set the pilot into production. It took about a year following this meeting before Sony had set up the rights with AMC and production could start.[28]

Development history[edit]
Breaking Bad was filmed at various locations across Albuquerque. Clockwise from top left: the house used for the Whites' home, the fast food restaurant that was used for Los Pollos Hermanos, the Crossroads Motels used in-show for various drug deals, a rental home used for Jane's and Jesse's apartment, the car wash where Walter works part-time, and the Doghouse, a functioning drive-in restaurant.
The network ordered nine episodes for the first season (including the pilot), but the 2007–08 Writers Guild of America strike limited the production to seven episodes, as well as delaying the start of production for the second season.[30] Within the original nine-episode arc, Gilligan had planned to kill off Jesse or Hank, as a "ballsy" moment to end the season on.[24] This death was eliminated with the limited episode count, which Gilligan found to be a net positive given the strength of acting that both Paul and Norris brought to these roles through the seasons.[24] The strike also helped to slow down production long enough for Gilligan and his writing team to readjust the pacing of the show, which in the original arc had been moving too quickly.[24] Gould stated that the writer's strike "saved the show", as if they had produced the two additional episodes in the first season, they would have gone down a different creative path that he believes would have led to the show's cancellation by its third season.[31]
The initial versions of the script were set in Riverside, California, but at the suggestion of Sony, Albuquerque was chosen for the production's location due to the favorable financial conditions offered by the state of New Mexico. Once Gilligan recognized that this would mean "we'd always have to be avoiding the Sandia Mountains" in shots directed toward the east, the story setting was changed to the actual production location.[32][33] It was shot primarily on 35 mm film,[34] with digital cameras employed as needed for additional angles, point of view shots and time-lapse photography.[35] Breaking Bad cost $3 million per episode to produce, higher than the average cost for a basic cable program.[36]
Around 2010, AMC had expressed to Sony Pictures Television and Gilligan that they felt that the third season would be the last for Breaking Bad. Sony started to shop the show around, having gained quick interest from the FX network for two more seasons, upon which AMC changed its mind and allowed the show to continue.[37] At the same time, Netflix was starting to aggressively shop for content to add to its service and arranged a deal with Sony for Breaking Bad to be available after the airing of the fourth season. Knowing that AMC had placed Breaking Bad on a potential cancellation route, Sony pushed to have the show added to the service in time for the fourth season. Breaking Bad's viewership grew greatly as viewers binged the series on Netflix, helping to assure that a fifth season could be made. The fifth-season premiere had more than double the viewership compared to the fourth season premiere, attributed to the Netflix availability.[37] Gilligan thanked Netflix at the Emmy Awards in September 2013 after the series' conclusion for the popularity of the series, saying that Netflix "kept us on the air".[38]
As the series progressed, Gilligan and the writing staff of Breaking Bad made Walter increasingly unsympathetic.[21] Gilligan said during the run of the series, "He's going from being a protagonist to an antagonist. We want to make people question who they're pulling for, and why."[22] Cranston said by the fourth season, "I think Walt's figured out it's better to be a pursuer than the pursued. He's well on his way to badass."[23]
In July 2011, Vince Gilligan indicated that he intended to conclude Breaking Bad at the end of its fifth season.[39] In early August 2011, negotiations began over a deal regarding the fifth and possible final season between the network AMC and Sony Pictures Television, the production company of the series. AMC proposed a shortened fifth season (six to eight episodes, instead of 13) to cut costs, but the producers declined. Sony then approached other cable networks about possibly picking up the show if a deal could not be made.[40] On August 14, 2011, AMC renewed the series for a fifth and final season consisting of 16 episodes.[41] In April 2012, Bryan Cranston revealed that the fifth season would be split into two halves, with the first eight episodes airing in 2012, and the final eight in 2013.[42]
Before the series finale, Gilligan said that it was difficult to write for Walter White because the character was so dark and morally questionable: "I'm going to miss the show when it's over, but on some level, it'll be a relief to not have Walt in my head anymore."[43] Gilligan later said the idea for Walter's character intrigued him so much that he "didn't really give much thought on how well it would sell", stating that he would have given up on the premise since it was "such an odd, dark story" that could have difficulties being pitched to studios.[27] Ultimately, Gilligan chose to end Breaking Bad with Walter's death, occurring in-story two years after he had first been diagnosed with cancer and given two years to live. Gilligan said by the end of the series, "it feels as if we should adhere to our promise that we explicitly made to our audience" from the first episode.[44]

Casting[edit]


You're going to see that underlying humanity, even when he's making the most devious, terrible decisions, and you need someone who has that humanity – deep down, bedrock humanity – so you say, watching this show, "All right, I'll go for this ride. I don't like what he's doing, but I understand, and I'll go with it for as far as it goes." If you don't have a guy who gives you that, despite the greatest acting chops in the world, the show is not going to succeed.


—Vince Gilligan, about Bryan Cranston[45]

Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan cast Bryan Cranston for the role of Walter White based on having worked with him in the "Drive" episode of the science fiction television series The X-Files, on which Gilligan worked as a writer. Cranston played an anti-Semite with a terminal illness who took series co-protagonist Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) hostage. Gilligan said the character had to be simultaneously loathsome and sympathetic, and that "Bryan alone was the only actor who could do that, who could pull off that trick. And it is a trick. I have no idea how he does it."[43][45] AMC officials, who were initially reluctant with the casting choice, having known Cranston only as the over-the-top character Hal on the comedy series Malcolm in the Middle, approached actors John Cusack and Matthew Broderick about the role.[46] When both actors declined, the executives were persuaded to cast Cranston after seeing his X-Files episode.[47]
Cranston contributed significantly to the formation and development of the Walter White persona. When Gilligan left much of Walter's past unexplained during the development of the series, the actor wrote his own backstory for the character.[43] At the start of the show, Cranston gained 10 pounds to reflect the character's personal decline, and had the natural red highlights of his hair dyed brown. He collaborated with costume designer Kathleen Detoro on a wardrobe of mostly neutral green and brown colors to make the character bland and unremarkable, and worked with makeup artist Frieda Valenzuela to create a mustache he described as "impotent" and like a "dead caterpillar".[48] Cranston repeatedly identified elements in certain scripts where he disagreed with how the character was handled,[49] and went so far as to call Gilligan directly when he could not work out disagreements with the episode's screenwriters. Cranston has said he was inspired partially by his elderly father for how Walter carries himself physically, which he described as "a little hunched over, never erect, [as if] the weight of the world is on this man's shoulders". In contrast to his character, Cranston has been described as extremely playful on set, with Aaron Paul describing him as "a kid trapped in a man's body".[43]
Aaron Paul's casting was also initially questioned by production, as Paul looked too old and too much of a "pretty boy" to be associated with meth cooking. Gilligan reconsidered Paul's skills after seeing his audition and recalling he had also had guest starred on The X-Files episode "Lord of the Flies".[28] Gilligan originally intended for Pinkman to be killed at the end of Breaking Bad's first season in a botched drug deal as a plot device to plague Walter White with guilt. However, Gilligan said by the second episode of the season, he was so impressed with Paul's performance that "it became pretty clear early on that that would be a huge, colossal mistake, to kill off Jesse".[50] Similarly, Dean Norris had shown his ability to be a law enforcement official in The X-Files episode "F. Emasculata", and was brought on to be Hank Schrader, Walter's brother-in-law and DEA agent.[51]

Scientific accuracy[edit]
Donna Nelson, a professor of organic chemistry at the University of Oklahoma, checked scripts and provided dialogue. She also drew chemical structures and wrote chemical equations which were used as props. According to creator Vince Gilligan,

Dr. Donna Nelson from the University of Oklahoma approached us several seasons back and said, "I really like this show, and if you ever need help with the chemistry, I'd love to lend a hand." She's been a wonderful advisor. We get help wherever we need it, whether it's chemistry, electrical engineering, or physics. We try to get everything correct. There's no full-time [advisor] on set, but we run certain scenes by these experts first.[52]
"Because Walter White was talking to his students, I was able to dumb down certain moments of description and dialogue in the early episodes which held me until we had some help from some honest-to-God chemists", says Gilligan. According to Gilligan, Nelson "vets our scripts to make sure our chemistry dialogue is accurate and up to date. We also have a chemist with the Drug Enforcement Administration based out of Dallas who has just been hugely helpful to us."[53] Nelson spoke of Gilligan's interest in having the science right, saying that Gilligan "said it made a difference to him".[54]

The gas mask worn when characters would cook meth in Breaking Bad is on display at the Mob Museum in Las Vegas.
Several episodes of Mythbusters featured attempts to validate or disprove scenes from Breaking Bad, often with Gilligan guest-starring in the episode to participate. In 2013, two scenes from the first season of Breaking Bad were put under scrutiny in a Mythbusters Breaking Bad special. Despite several modifications to what was seen in the show, both the scenes depicted in the show were shown to be physically impossible.[55] It was shown impossible to use hydrofluoric acid to fully dissolve metal, flesh, or ceramic as shown in the episode "Cat's in the Bag...", and that while it was possible to throw fulminated mercury against the floor to cause an explosion, as in the episode "Crazy Handful of Nothin'", Walter would have needed a much larger quantity of the compound and thrown at a much faster speed, and likely would have killed all in the room.[56][57] A later Mythbusters episode, "Blow It Out of the Water", tested the possibility of mounting an automated machine gun in a car as in the series finale "Felina", and found it plausible.[58] An episode of MythBusters Jr. proved that it was impossible for an electromagnet to draw metallic objects from across a room as in the episode "Live Free or Die".[59]
Jason Wallach of Vice magazine commended the accuracy of the cooking methods presented in the series. In early episodes, a once-common clandestine method, the Nagai red phosphorus/iodine method, is depicted, which uses pseudoephedrine as a precursor to d-(+)-methamphetamine.[60] By the season 1 finale, Walt chooses to use a different synthetic route based on the difficulty of acquiring enough pseudoephedrine to produce on the larger scale required. The new method Walt chooses is a reductive amination reaction, relying on phenyl-2-propanone and methylamine. On the show, the phenyl-2-propanone (otherwise known as phenylacetone or P2P) is produced from phenylacetic acid and acetic acid using a tube furnace and thorium dioxide (ThO2) as a catalyst, as mentioned in episodes "A No Rough-Stuff-Type Deal" and "Más". P2P and methylamine form an imine intermediate; reduction of this P2P-methylamine imine intermediate is performed using mercury aluminum amalgam, as shown in several episodes, including "Hazard Pay".[61]

The meth in each episode was blue candy created by the employees at "The Candy Lady".
One of the important plot points in the series is that the crystal meth Walter "cooks" has very long crystals, is very pure, and (despite its purity) has a strong cyan blue color. Pure crystal meth would be colorless or white.[62]
In their article "Die Chemie bei Breaking Bad" on Chemie in unserer Zeit (translated into English on ChemistryViews as "The Chemistry of Breaking Bad"), Tunga Salthammer and Falk Harnish discuss the plausibility of the chemistry portrayed in certain scenes. According to the two, chemistry is clearly depicted as a manufacturing science without much explanation of analytical methods being provided. They also note that serious scientific subjects are mixed into the dialogue in order to show a world where chemistry plays a key role.[62]

Technical aspects[edit]
Michael Slovis was the cinematographer of Breaking Bad, beginning with the second season, and he received critical acclaim for his work throughout the series. Critics appreciated the bold visual style adopted by the TV series. Although series creator Vince Gilligan and Slovis wanted to shoot Breaking Bad in CinemaScope, Sony and AMC did not grant them permission. Gilligan cited Sergio Leone's Westerns as a reference for how he wanted the series to look.[63] Slovis received four Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Cinematography for a One Hour Series and Outstanding Cinematography for a Single-Camera Series.[64]
Breaking Bad was shot on 35 mm film because of the robustness of the equipment and to keep a focus on shooting scenes economically. It also allowed for a later digital transfer to 4K Ultra HD resolution.[65] By the end of the fifth season, episodes had cost upwards of US$6 million to produce.[37]
Kelley Dixon was one of the few editors of Breaking Bad and edited many of the series' "meth montages". For the montages, she would use techniques such as jump cuts and alternating the speed of the film, either faster or slower.[66] For her work, she received six Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Drama Series and won the award in 2013.[64]

Episodes[edit]
Main article: List of Breaking Bad episodes
SeasonEpisodesOriginally airedFirst airedLast aired17January 20, 2008 (2008-01-20)March 9, 2008 (2008-03-09)213March 8, 2009 (2009-03-08)May 31, 2009 (2009-05-31)313March 21, 2010 (2010-03-21)June 13, 2010 (2010-06-13)413July 17, 2011 (2011-07-17)October 9, 2011 (2011-10-09)5168July 15, 2012 (2012-07-15)September 2, 2012 (2012-09-02)8August 11, 2013 (2013-08-11)September 29, 2013 (2013-09-29)FilmOctober 11, 2019 (2019-10-11)
The complete series was released on DVD and Blu-ray on November 26, 2013, in a collectable box shaped like one of the barrels used by Walt to bury his money.[67] The set contains various features, including a two-hour documentary[68] and a humorous alternative ending that features Cranston and his Malcolm in the Middle co-star Jane Kaczmarek playing their characters Hal and Lois, in a nod to the final scene from Newhart.[69][70]

Season 1 (2008)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad season 1
The first season was originally intended to be nine episodes, but due to the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike only seven episodes were filmed.[30] It ran from January 20 to March 9, 2008.
Walter, diagnosed with inoperable lung cancer, conspires with Jesse to cook crystal meth to pay for his treatment and provide financial security for his family. Jesse secures an R.V. to cook in, while Walter devises a revolutionary formula using unregulated chemicals, creating a highly pure product tinted blue. After a run-in with the Mexican cartel, Walter adopts the pseudonym "Heisenberg" and trades his "blue sky" meth with psychotic drug lord Tuco Salamanca. The DEA and Hank, Walt's brother-in-law, become aware of Heisenberg's presence in the drug trade and begin investigating.

Season 2 (2009)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad season 2
Tuco and Walter become hostile and Tuco is killed by Hank. After a failed attempt by Walter and Jesse to start their own distribution network leaves one of their dealers arrested and one murdered, Walter hires corrupt lawyer Saul Goodman, who later connects them to high-profile drug distributor Gus Fring and hitman Mike Ehrmantraut. Jesse dates his apartment manager Jane, who introduces him to heroin, making him unreliable. After selling a shipment to Gus, Walt refuses to pay Jesse his half of the money, but Jane blackmails him. Walt returns to Jesse to apologize but instead finds him and Jane passed out on heroin, following Walter allowing an unconscious Jane to choke on her own vomit. Jesse wakes up the next morning, traumatized, enters rehab. Walt seems content until he witnesses a mid-air collision of two planes; a result of Jane's father, an air-traffic controller, becoming distraught over her death while working.

Season 3 (2010)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad season 3
On April 2, 2009, AMC announced that Breaking Bad was renewed for a third, 13-episode season.[71] It premiered on March 21, 2010, and concluded on June 13, 2010. The complete third season was released on Region 1 DVD and Region A Blu-ray on June 7, 2011.[72]
Skyler learns of Walt's crimes and seeks a divorce from him. Walt briefly retires from the drug trade, but Gus offers him a job cooking meth at a hidden lab with an assistant, Gale. Hank's investigation leads him to Jesse. He finds no evidence, but assaults Jesse and is suspended from the DEA. Walt, in order to keep Jesse from suing Hank, coerces Gus into replacing Gale with Jesse as his lab assistant. Hank is attacked by Tuco's vengeful cousins and kills them, becoming paralyzed in the aftermath. Jesse's behavior becomes erratic, and Walt is forced to kill two of Gus' drug dealers to protect Jesse. After an enraged Gus orders for them to be killed, Walt convinces Jesse to kill Gale so that Gus cannot replace them.

Season 4 (2011)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad season 4
On June 14, 2010, AMC announced Breaking Bad was renewed for a fourth, 13-episode season.[73] Production began in January 2011,[74] the season premiered on July 17, 2011, and concluded on October 9, 2011.[75] Originally, mini episodes of four minutes in length were to be produced before the premiere of the fourth season,[76] but these did not come to fruition.[77]
Gus tightens security at the lab after Gale's death. Gus and Mike drive a wedge between Walt and Jesse, coercing Jesse to be their solitary cook while at the same time eliminating the Mexican cartel. Skyler accepts Walt's meth cooking and conspires with Saul to launder the earnings. Hank, in recovery, tracks Gale's death to Gus and the drug trade. Walt tricks Jesse into turning against Gus, and convinces Hector Salamanca, the last living member of the cartel, to detonate a bomb while meeting with Gus, killing them both.

Season 5 (2012–13)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad season 5
On August 14, 2011, AMC announced that Breaking Bad was renewed for a fifth and final season consisting of 16 episodes.[41] Season five is split into two parts, each consisting of 8 episodes. The first half premiered on July 15, 2012, while the second half premiered on August 11, 2013.[78] In August 2013, AMC released a trailer promoting the premiere of final season with Bryan Cranston reading the poem "Ozymandias" by Percy Bysshe Shelley, over timelapse shots of Breaking Bad locations.[79]
After Gus' death, Walt, Jesse, and Mike start a new meth business. When their accomplice Todd kills a child witness during a methylamine theft, Jesse and Mike sell their share of the methylamine to Declan, another distributor. Walter produces meth for Declan, and Gus' former associate Lydia starts distribution in Europe, which is so successful that Walter earns US$80 million, which he buries on the Tohajiilee Indian Reservation. After Walter kills Mike during an argument, he is given names of Mike's imprisoned men from Lydia. Walt hires Todd's uncle, Jack, and his gang to kill Mike's associates; they also kill Declan.
Hank discovers Walt is Heisenberg and begins gathering evidence. He turns to Jesse, who helps track Walt's money to the reservation. When Walt is arrested, Jack's gang arrives. They kill Hank, capture Jesse, and take most of Walt's money. Walt is forced to flee alone with the remaining money. After months in hiding, Walt plans to surrender but changes course after Elliott and Gretchen publicly minimize his involvement in starting Gray Matter. Walt manipulates Elliott and Gretchen to give his earnings to Walter Jr. once he turns 18. After poisoning Lydia, Walt admits to Skyler that he manufactured meth for his own satisfaction rather than for his family. At Jack's compound, Walter kills Jack and his gang with a remotely controlled machine gun, and frees Jesse, who kills Todd. The two share a farewell glance before Jesse escapes. Wounded by his own weapon, Walt dies from his wounds in Jack's meth lab.

Themes[edit]
Moral consequences[edit]
In an interview with The New York Times, Gilligan said the larger lesson of the series is that "actions have consequences".[43] He elaborated on the show's philosophy:

If religion is a reaction of man, and nothing more, it seems to me that it represents a human desire for wrongdoers to be punished. I hate the idea of Idi Amin living in Saudi Arabia for the last 25 years of his life. That galls me to no end. I feel some sort of need for Biblical atonement, or justice, or something. I like to believe there is some comeuppance, that karma kicks in at some point, even if it takes years or decades to happen. My girlfriend says this great thing that's become my philosophy as well. "I want to believe there's a heaven. But I can't not believe there's a hell."
In a piece comparing the show to The Sopranos, Mad Men and The Wire, Chuck Klosterman said that Breaking Bad is "built on the uncomfortable premise that there's an irrefutable difference between what's right and what's wrong, and it's the only one where the characters have real control over how they choose to live". Klosterman added that the central question of Breaking Bad is: "What makes a man 'bad' – his actions, his motives, or his conscious decision to be a bad person?" Klosterman concluded that in the world of Breaking Bad, "goodness and badness are simply complicated choices, no different than anything else".[20]
Ross Douthat of The New York Times, in a response to Klosterman's piece, compared Breaking Bad and The Sopranos, stating that both series are "morality plays" that are "both interested in moral agency". Douthat went on to say that Walter White and Tony Soprano "represent mirror-image takes on the problem of evil, damnation, and free will". Walter is a man who "deliberately abandons the light for the darkness" while Tony is "someone born and raised in darkness" who turns down "opportunity after opportunity to claw his way upward to the light".[80]

Devotion to family[edit]
The show explores most of the main characters' connections to their families in great detail. Walt justifies his decision to cook crystal meth and become a criminal because of his desire to provide for his family.[81] In the third season he tries to exit the business because it has driven Skyler to leave him. Gus convinces him to stay, telling him it is a man's job to provide for his family, even if he is unloved.[82] In the final episode of the series, Walt finally admits to Skyler that the main motivation for his endeavors in the meth business was his own interest, in spite of secretly securing the $9.72 million he had managed to salvage for her and the children. Jesse's loneliness in the early seasons of the show can be partly explained by his parents' decision to kick him out of their home due to his drug-related activities. This parental disconnect brings him closer to Jane, whose father berates her for her drug use. When Walt crosses paths with Jane's father, Walt refers to Jesse as his nephew and laments the fact that he cannot get through to him. Jane's father responds by telling him to keep trying, saying, "Family. You can't give up on them, ever. What else is there?"[83] Jane's subsequent death, which Walt purposefully did not prevent, is a major factor in her father causing the airliner crash at the end of the second season.
Even the show's more hardened characters maintain ties to family. In the second season, Tuco Salamanca spends time caring for his physically disabled uncle, Hector. When Tuco is killed by Hank, his cousins vow revenge. Their actions are further explained in a flashback, where Hector explains to the brothers that "La familia es todo" ("Family is everything"). Gustavo Fring's franchise Los Pollos Hermanos translates to "The Chicken Brothers". This refers to the fact that the company was co-founded by Gus and a man named Max, with whom he shared a romantic relationship. When Max is killed by Hector Salamanca, Gus vows to destroy the Salamanca family and in particular to humiliate Hector and prolong and draw out his suffering.[81] In the first part of the fifth season, it is explained that Mike Ehrmantraut's intentions for being in this business were to provide for his granddaughter's future, and by his final episode he is conflicted when having to leave her in a park by herself once he has been warned that the police are onto him. During the second part of the fifth season, white supremacist Jack Welker says "don't skimp on family", and he lets Walt live after capturing him in the desert because of love for his nephew Todd Alquist, who has great respect for Walt. Lydia Rodarte-Quayle repeatedly demands that if Mike insists on killing her, that he leave her in her apartment so her daughter can find her, fearful she will think Lydia abandoned her. Much like Walt and Mike, Lydia seems to engage in the meth business in order to provide for her daughter, with actress Laura Fraser stating in an interview that Lydia's daughter is important to how "Lydia justified what she did to herself".[84]

Pride[edit]
Pride/hubris is a major theme in Walter White's tragic character arc. In an interview with The Village Voice, Gilligan identified the tipping point at which Walt "breaks bad" as his prideful decision not to accept Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz's offer to pay for his chemotherapy (season 1, episode 5):

They offer [Walter White] everything he needs. At the end of that hour he says, "Thank you, no," and he goes back to Jesse Pinkman and says, "Let's cook." And that was where the character truly got interesting for me. This guy's got some serious pride issues.[85]
The critically acclaimed episode "Ozymandias" references the Percy Bysshe Shelley poem of the same name, which describes the crumbling legacy of an overly prideful king.[86][87] The episode draws parallels to the poem, as both antiheroes are left with little to show for their empire-building efforts. Austin Gill of Xavier University stated the episode "evokes the tyrannical aspirations of invincibility and arrogance of Ozymandias himself as represented in Shelley's poem".[88] Douglas Eric Rasmussen of the University of Saskatchewan argued that the "concept of hubris and being punished for grandiose projects that serve an individual's egotism are central aspects of each work".[89] Hank's death marks the beginning of a shift where it becomes increasingly difficult for Walt to continue to insist that he cooks meth for the sake of his family's well-being. By the series finale, Walt finally admits to Skyler that he became Heisenberg for his own ego: "I did it for me. I liked it. I was good at it."[90]

Symbolism[edit]
Pink teddy bear[edit]
The pink teddy bear as seen during the second season
A motif within the second season is the image of a damaged teddy bear and its missing eye. The teddy bear first appears at the end of the music video "Fallacies" for Jesse's band "TwaüghtHammër", which was released as a webisode in February 2009 leading to the second season.[91] The teddy bear can also be spotted on the mural on Jane's bedroom wall during the final episode of the second season, further connecting the crash to Jane. It is seen in flashforwards during four episodes, the titles of which, when put together in order, form the sentence "Seven Thirty-Seven down over ABQ".[92][93][94] The flashforwards are shot in black and white, with the sole exception of the pink teddy bear, which is an homage to the film Schindler's List, where the color red is used to distinguish the coat of a very young girl.[95] At the end of the season, Walter indirectly helps cause the midair collision of two airplanes;[96][97] the pink teddy bear is then revealed to have fallen out of one of the planes and into the Whites' swimming pool. Vince Gilligan called the plane accident an attempt to visualize "all the terrible grief that Walt has wrought upon his loved ones" and "the judgment of God".[98]
In the first episode of the third season, Walt finds the teddy bear's missing eye in the pool skimmer. Television critic Myles McNutt has called it "a symbol of the damage [Walter] feels responsible for",[99] and The A.V. Club commented that "the pink teddy bear continues to accuse."[100] Fans and critics have compared the appearance of the teddy bear's face to an image of Gus Fring's face in the fourth-season finale.[101]
The teddy bear prop was auctioned off, among other memorabilia, on September 29, 2013, the air date of the show finale.[102][103]

Colors[edit]
A recurring symbol within Breaking Bad is the use of color, particularly the characters' color for wardrobe, being used to represent a character's state of mind or a relationship between characters or to foreshadow an event.[104] In an interview with Vulture, Vince Gilligan says "Color is important on Breaking Bad; we always try to think in terms of it. We always try to think of the color that a character is dressed in, in the sense that it represents on some level their state of mind."[105]

Walt Whitman[edit]
Walter White's name is reminiscent of the poet Walt Whitman.[93] During the series, Gale Boetticher gives Walt a copy of Whitman's Leaves of Grass.[106] Prior to giving this gift, Boetticher recites "When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer".[107] In the episode "Bullet Points", Hank finds the initials W.W. written in Boetticher's notes, and jokes with Walt that they are his initials, although Walt indicates that they must refer to Whitman.
In the episode "Hazard Pay", Walt finds the copy of Leaves of Grass as he is packing up his bedroom, briefly smiles, and leaves it out to read. This occurs at an especially high point in his life, when he feels that things are coming together and he is succeeding in all his ventures. A poem in the book, "Song of Myself", is based on many of these same feelings, furthering the connection between Walt's life and Whitman's poetry.[108] The mid-season finale of season five, "Gliding Over All", is titled after poem 271 of Leaves of Grass.[109] In the episode, Hank finds Leaves of Grass in Walt's bathroom and opens it to the cover page, where he reads the hand-written inscription: "To my other favorite W.W. It's an honour working with you. Fondly G.B." Upon reading this, Hank becomes visibly shocked, realizing the truth about Walter for the first time, which provides the opening premise for the second half of the final season.

Reception and legacy[edit]
Critical reception[edit]
Critical response of Breaking BadSeasonRotten TomatoesMetacritic186% (43 reviews)[110]73 (27 reviews)[111]297% (36 reviews)[112]84 (19 reviews)[113]3100% (36 reviews)[114]89 (15 reviews)[115]4100% (36 reviews)[116]96 (15 reviews)[117]597% (99 reviews)[118]99 (22 reviews)[119]
Breaking Bad received widespread critical acclaim and has been praised by many critics as one of the greatest television shows of all time.[120] On the review aggregator website Metacritic (using a scale of 0–100), the first season scored 73,[111] the second 84,[113] the third 89,[115] the fourth 96,[117] and the fifth 99.[119] The American Film Institute listed Breaking Bad as one of the top ten television series of 2008, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013.[121][122][123][124][125] In 2013, TV Guide ranked it as the ninth greatest TV series of all time.[126] By its end, the series was among the most-watched cable shows on American television, with audience numbers doubling from the fourth season to the fifth.[127] A 2015 survey by The Hollywood Reporter of 2,800 actors, producers, directors, and other industry people named Breaking Bad as their #2 favorite show.[128] In 2016 and 2022, Rolling Stone ranked it third on its list of 100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.[129][130] In September 2019, The Guardian ranked the show fifth on its list of the 100 best TV shows of the 21st century, describing it as "The show that arguably killed off the antihero drama; nothing since has been able to top the depraved descent made by Walter White (a never-better Bryan Cranston), from milquetoast chemistry teacher to meth overlord, and few have dared to try."[131] In 2021, Empire ranked Breaking Bad at number one on their list of The 100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.[132] Allen St. John of Forbes called it "The best TV show ever".[133] In 2021, it was voted the third-best TV series of the 21st century by the BBC, as picked by 206 TV experts from around the world.[134] In 2023, Variety ranked Breaking Bad as the fifth-greatest TV show of all time.[135]
For the first season, the series saw a generally positive reception. Robert Bianco of USA Today praised Cranston and Paul, exclaiming "There is humor in the show, mostly in Walt's efforts to impose scholarly logic on the business and on his idiot apprentice, a role Paul plays very well. But even their scenes lean toward the suspenseful, as the duo learns that killing someone, even in self-defense, is ugly, messy work."[136]
The second season saw critical acclaim. Entertainment Weekly critic Ken Tucker stated "Bad is a superlatively fresh metaphor for a middle-age crisis: It took cancer and lawbreaking to jolt Walt out of his suburban stupor, to experience life again—to take chances, risk danger, do things he didn't think himself capable of doing. None of this would work, of course, without Emmy winner Cranston's ferocious, funny selflessness as an actor. For all its bleakness and darkness, there's a glowing exhilaration about this series: It's a feel-good show about feeling really bad."[137] San Francisco Chronicle's Tim Goodman claimed "The first three episodes of Season 2 that AMC sent out continue that level of achievement with no evident missteps. In fact, it looks as if Gilligan's bold vision for Breaking Bad, now duly rewarded against all odds, has invigorated everyone involved in the project. You can sense its maturity and rising ambition in each episode."[138] Horror novelist Stephen King lauded the series, comparing it to the likes of Twin Peaks and Blue Velvet.[139]

From left to right: Josh Sapan (AMC president and CEO), Aaron Paul (Jesse Pinkman), Vince Gilligan (creator), Bryan Cranston (Walter White) and Charlie Collier (President, general manager)
The third season also saw critical acclaim. Time proclaimed, "It's a drama that has chosen the slow burn over the flashy explosion, and it's all the hotter for that choice."[140] Newsday stated Breaking Bad was still TV's best series and it stayed true to itself.[141] Tim Goodman praised the writing, acting, and cinematography, pointing out the "visual adventurousness" of the series. Goodman went on to call the show's visuals "a combination of staggering beauty – the directors make use of numerous wide-angle landscape portraits – and transfixing weirdness."[142] After the finale aired, The A.V. Club said that season three was "one of television's finest dramatic accomplishments. And what makes it so exciting – what makes the recognition of the current golden age so pressing – is that the season has not been, as [another reviewer] put it in another context, 'television good.' The heart-in-the-throat quality of this season comes as much from the writers' exhilarating disregard for television conventions as from the events portrayed."[143]
Season four won near-universal critical acclaim. The Boston Globe referred to the show as a "taut exercise in withheld disaster" and declared the show "riveting".[144] The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette labeled the series "smart and thought provoking that elevates the artistic achievements of the medium".[145] Season four was listed by many critics as one of the best seasons of television in 2011.[146] Time listed Walter White's "I am the one who knocks" line as one of the best television lines of 2011.[147] The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette listed it as the best series of 2011 while noting that "Breaking Bad is that rare TV series that has never made a seriously damaging storytelling misstep."[148] The A.V. Club's review of the finale summed it up as a "fantastically fitting end for a season that ran in slow motion, starting and continuing with so many crises begging for resolution week after week. Now the decks are cleared, but that doesn't mean anybody is home free. Nothing's ever easy on Breaking Bad." The reviewer continued to exalt the season, and proclaimed, "What a season of television – truly something none of us could ever have expected, or claimed we deserved."[149]
Both halves of the fifth season received overwhelming critical acclaim. Following the end of the series, critic Nick Harley summarized his commendation of the show: "Expertly written, virtuosic with its direction, and flawlessly performed, Breaking Bad is everything you could want in a drama. Critics will spend the next decade dissecting and arguing about what made it great, but the reasons are endless and already well documented."[150] During the final season, the show also received praise from George R. R. Martin, author of the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, particularly the episode "Ozymandias"; Martin commented that "Walter White is a bigger monster than anyone in Westeros."[151] In his review of the second half of season 5, Seth Amitin of IGN stated, "This final batch of Breaking Bad is one of the best run of episodes TV has ever offered", and praised "Ozymandias" in particular, referring to it as "maybe the best episode of TV [he's] ever seen".[152] Jonah Goldberg of National Review called it "the best show currently on television, and perhaps even the best ever".[153] The veteran actor Sir Anthony Hopkins wrote a letter of praise to Bryan Cranston, telling him that his "performance as Walter White was the best acting I have seen – ever". He lauded the rest of the cast and crew as well.[154][155] The letter first appeared on Steven Michael Quezada's (who portrayed DEA Agent Steven Gomez) Facebook page, and in spite of it being taken down, the letter soon went viral.[156] In 2013, Guinness World Records named Breaking Bad the highest-rated TV series of all time, citing its season 5 Metacritic score of 99 out of 100.[157][158]

Criticism[edit]
Breaking Bad has been accused by some members of law enforcement and the legal community of normalizing or glorifying methamphetamine creation and usage.[159][160][161]

Ratings[edit]
Breaking Bad premiered on the same night as both the NFC and AFC Championships in the 2008 NFL playoffs, an intentional decision by AMC hoping to capture the adult male viewership immediately following the planned end of the NFC game.[24] The game ran over its time slot, cutting into Breaking Bad's timeslot in most of America. As a result, the pilot had only about 1.4 million viewers. Coupled with the ongoing writers strike, the first season did not draw as large of a viewership as they expected.[28] However, with subsequent seasons, viewership increased, avoiding the usual trend of downward viewership that most serialized shows had.[24] Ratings further increased by the fourth season as, prior to airing, the previous seasons had been added to Netflix, boosting interest in the show.[24] Breaking Bad is considered the first such show to have a renewed burst of interest due to the show being made available on Netflix.[37] The second half of the final season saw record viewership, with the series finale reaching over 10.3 million viewers.[162]


Viewership and ratings per season of Breaking Bad


Season
Timeslot (ET)

Episodes

First aired

Last aired
Avg. viewers(millions)


Date

Viewers(millions)

Date

Viewers(millions)


1

Sunday 10:00 pm
7

January 20, 2008 (2008-01-20)
1.41[162]

March 9, 2008 (2008-03-09)
1.50[163]
1.23[164]


2

13

March 8, 2009 (2009-03-08)
1.66[165]

May 31, 2009 (2009-05-31)
1.50[166]
1.30[167]


3

13

March 21, 2010 (2010-03-21)
1.95[168]

June 13, 2010 (2010-06-13)
1.56[169]
1.52[170]


4

13

July 17, 2011 (2011-07-17)
2.58[171]

October 9, 2011 (2011-10-09)
1.90[172]
1.87[173]


5A

8

July 15, 2012 (2012-07-15)
2.93[174]

September 2, 2012 (2012-09-02)
2.78[175]
4.32[176]


5B

Sunday 9:00 pm
8

August 11, 2013 (2013-08-11)
5.92[177]

September 29, 2013 (2013-09-29)
10.28[178]


Breaking Bad : U.S. viewers per episode (millions)Graphs are unavailable due to technical issues. There is more info on Phabricator and on MediaWiki.org.Audience measurement performed by Nielsen Media Research[164][167][179][173][176]
Awards and nominations[edit]
Main article: List of awards and nominations received by Breaking Bad
The cast and crew of Breaking Bad at the 68th Annual Peabody Awards
The series received numerous awards and nominations, including 16 Primetime Emmy Awards and 58 nominations, including winning for Outstanding Drama Series in 2013 and 2014.[64] It also won two Peabody Awards, one in 2008[180] and one in 2013.[181]
For his portrayal of Walter White, Bryan Cranston won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series four times, in 2008, 2009, 2010, and 2014.[182] Cranston also won the TCA Award for Individual Achievement in Drama in 2009 and the Satellite Award for Best Actor – Television Series: Drama in 2008, 2009, and 2010, as well as the Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Actor in a Drama Series and the Saturn Award for Best Actor on Television in 2012.
Aaron Paul won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series in 2010, 2012, and 2014. Paul also won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor on Television in 2010 and 2012. Anna Gunn won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2013 and 2014. For his work on season four, Giancarlo Esposito won the Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Drama Series.
In 2010 and 2012, Breaking Bad won the TCA Award for Outstanding Achievement in Drama, as well as the TCA Award for Program of the Year in 2013. In 2009 and 2010, the series won the Satellite Award for Best Television Series – Drama, along with the Saturn Award for Best Syndicated/Cable Television Series in 2010, 2011, and 2012. The series won the Writers Guild of America Award for Television: Dramatic Series in both 2012 and 2013.[183] In 2013, it was named No. 13 in a list of the 101 Best-Written TV Series of All Time by the Writers Guild of America[184] and won, for the first time, the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series. Overall, the show has won 110 industry awards and has been nominated for 262.

Retrospective conversations[edit]
Writers reunion[edit]


There was a hive mind with these wonderful writers, where I don't remember who said what, and it doesn't even matter whose idea was whose. But I remember one afternoon, somebody said – and I was kind of into it for a while – "Wouldn't it be really ironic if Walt is the only one to survive this?" Because it does seem so obvious that Walt should expire at the end of the final episode – but maybe he's the only one left alive. Maybe he still does have a death sentence, but we go out on him alive, and maybe his whole family's been wiped out. That would have been really f—ing dark.


— Vince Gilligan, on an alternate ending[185]

Variety held a Q&A with most of the original writing staff to reflect on the show's run, the final season, the writing process, and alternative endings. Along with creator Vince Gilligan, fellow writers and producers Peter Gould, Thomas Schnauz, Gennifer Hutchison, Moira Walley-Beckett, Sam Catlin and George Mastras joined to discuss memories from the show's humble beginnings, character transformations that concluded in the final season as well as surprising developments along the way. For instance, Jesse's character was originally supposed to die halfway through season one in a tragic drug deal gone horribly wrong. The reasoning behind this decision was that Jesse served his purpose "in a meat-and-potatoes, logistical sense. The character would give Walt his entrée into the business" before meeting his demise. However, this was eventually done away with as the story progressed beyond Gilligan's early scripts.[185]
The writers also opened up on their collaborative process and how their form of storytelling evolved with the show. According to writer George Mastras,

Screen time was precious, and infusing every moment with the emotion [was the point], not just forming the pieces of the puzzle to tell the story, which is hard enough. If you're going to take five seconds of screen time, you'd better damn well be sure that there's an emotion there. It may be very, very subtle, but trust the audiences to pick up on that, because audiences do.[185]
The development of certain characters posed challenges. Skyler became unsympathetic to some viewers in earlier seasons as she was often presented as an obstacle to Walt's ultimate agenda. The writers struggled to change the dynamic and realized that "the only way people were going to like Skyler was if she started going along with what Walt was doing". It was a tricky shift to alter on screen; the writers did not want to betray her character. This led them to justify the change by using her past job as a bookkeeper to segue into her helping Walt launder his money. Breaking the individual episodes was another form of problem-solving for the writers. They stressed the importance of not letting the "master plan" stop them from staying true to the world they created. There came a point where tracking the characters on a moment-by-moment basis proved to be more useful rather than the general direction of the story. Gould said they would always start with the last thought in a character's head. "Where's Jesse's head at? That was always the prelude to the breakthrough moment, because when you said that, it's usually because we had gotten attached to some big plan or some big set-piece that we thought had to be there, but the characters didn't want to do what we wanted them to do."[185]

Audience response to Skyler[edit]
Particular backlash was directed towards the character of Skyler White. It has sparked an ongoing dialog about a number of topics, including society's attitude towards women, feminism, sexism, and double standards.[186][187]
In August 2013 (while Breaking Bad was in its original run) Anna Gunn published an op-ed in The New York Times titled "I Have a Character Issue" in which she discussed her experience playing Skyler, with particular focus on the vitriol that audience members directed towards her character. She compared Skyler to similar television wives who seemed to inspire venom from audience members that their respective husbands did not, in particular Carmela Soprano from The Sopranos and Betty Draper from Mad Men. In Gunn's words, "Vince Gilligan, the creator of Breaking Bad, wanted Skyler to be a woman with a backbone of steel who would stand up to whatever came her way, who wouldn't just collapse in the corner or wring her hands in despair. He and the show's writers made Skyler multilayered and, in her own way, morally compromised. But at the end of the day, she hasn't been judged by the same set of standards as Walter".[188]
In a 2018 cast reunion, Aaron Paul commented "Why did our audience not sympathize with this poor woman? I really felt for Anna, because she's just such a beautiful human inside and out, and she played Skyler in such a fierce way, and people just dragged her character the most."[189]
Vince Gilligan has defended both Skyler and Anna Gunn, saying at the same 2018 reunion "I figured Walt would be the one that'd be hard for people to sympathize with. Suddenly, lo and behold, we're hearing this animus toward Skyler White. To this day, it confounds me. Anna Gunn gave such a brilliant performance. We never tried for sympathy or lack of sympathy, we let the chips fall where they may. I would change that if I had a magic wand."[189] He later buttressed these sentiments in a 2022 interview, adding "I realize in hindsight that the show was rigged in the sense that the storytelling was solely through Walt's eyes, even in scenes he wasn't present for. Even Gus, his archenemy, didn't suffer the animosity Skyler received. It's a weird thing. I'm still thinking about it all these years later."[190]
Bryan Cranston has also defended Gunn and Skyler, saying "If you look at the elements that were involved in this—husband she finds out is lying, husband she finds out is doing something illegal, is doing something that puts her family in lethal danger, and she's being chastised—it's like, 'Wait a minute.' It baffled me from an objective standpoint."[189]
In 2018, Gunn reflected on her experiences on the show, saying "This is not about me, Anna Gunn, and it's really not about Skyler. It's about the way people are connecting to him (Walter). It's also about the way that people still hold on to, perhaps, older ideas of what a woman or a wife should be or how she should act, or how she should behave. In the end, change isn't always comfortable and isn't always pleasant, but it's good that it was brought to people's attention and consciousness."[189]
Nearly a decade after the show ended, Gunn remarked that she saw an improvement as to how the character of Skyler White was received, as well as in the state of television actresses and female characters in general. She said "when people come up to me, it’s incredibly different ... There’s still a long way to go, but we have made seismic changes since then. So people come up to me now and say, 'You were the linchpin for me. You were the conscience of the show. You were what pulled me into the show.' Or they say, 'The first time I watched it, I hated that character. But the second time I watched it, I realized, 'Oh my God, that poor woman.''"[191]

Rian Johnson's experience on the show[edit]
Director Rian Johnson worked on three episodes ("Fly", "Fifty-One" and "Ozymandias") and in an interview with IGN shared his memories from behind the camera. He shed some light on the process including the fact that he sat through "tone meetings" with Gilligan. The two of them talked about every dramatic beat in a script, the distinct visual look of the show, and how the tonal shift of each scene had to feel natural while serving the main storyline of the particular episode. Johnson also revealed that he learned so much about working with actors because of his directing of Cranston and Paul, describing the experience as a "free masterclass".[192]
When asked about the show's lasting legacy, Johnson offered up his thoughts,

I think the seriousness and depth with which it took its characters is the thing that really makes it stand apart for me. And that's where the power of it comes from. Obviously, starting with Walter White, there's just very few stories that are told on that scale, that have a character who is that deeply considered at the center of it. And I've heard people describe it as Shakespearean, and I know that word gets tossed around a lot, but I think in this case it really does apply. And that speaks, not so much to the fact that he goes to a dark place, but the fact that his entire journey is so deeply resonant, because it's so deeply considered.[192]
Franchise[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad (franchise)
Breaking Bad's success caused numerous spin-offs and a media franchise. This includes a spin-off prequel series, a Spanish-language adaptation, a sequel film, a talk show, and a video game.[193][194][195][196][197]

Real-life influence[edit]
Several attempts to create a real restaurant concept after Los Pollos Hermanos have occurred, most notably in 2019, Family Style, Inc., a chain of restaurants in California, Nevada, and Illinois, which secured rights from Sony and with Gilligan's blessing to sell chicken dinners through Uber Eats under the name and branding "Los Pollos Hermanos" in a three-year deal.[198]
Law enforcement authorities have reported occasional instances of seizing blue crystal methamphetamine in drug-related arrests and raids. The appearance of "blue meth" in real-world drug use has been attributed to Breaking Bad's popularity.[199]
In 2015, series creator Vince Gilligan publicly requested fans of the series to stop re-enacting a scene from "Caballo sin Nombre" in which Walter angrily throws a pizza onto his own roof after Skyler refuses to let him inside the house; this came after complaints from the home's real-life owner.[200]

Role reprisals[edit]
Beyond appearances in Better Call Saul and El Camino, Cranston reprised his role as Walter in a commercial for Esurance which aired during Super Bowl XLIX, one week before the premiere of Breaking Bad spin-off Better Call Saul.[201] Another ad for PopCorners, featuring Cranston, Paul, and Cruz reprising their roles and directed by Gilligan, aired for Super Bowl LVII.[202]

Tributes from Albuquerque[edit]
A Breaking Bad fan group placed a paid obituary for Walter White in the Albuquerque Journal, October 4, 2013.[203] On October 19, 2013, a mock funeral procession (including a hearse and a replica of Walter's meth lab RV) and service for the character was held at Albuquerque's Sunset Memorial Park cemetery. A headstone was placed with a photo of Cranston as Walter. While some residents were unhappy with the makeshift gravesite for closure with the show, tickets for the event raised nearly $17,000 for a local charity called Healthcare for the Homeless.[204][205]
Gilligan and Sony Television Pictures commissioned and donated a bronze statue of Walter and Jesse to the city of Albuquerque in July 2022, which is on display at the Albuquerque Convention Center.[206]

New Mexico Law Review[edit]
In May 2015, the New Mexico Law Review published a collection of eight articles by legal scholars, each dedicated to dissecting legal issues presented by Breaking Bad.[207][208] The articles discussed issues such as whether the attorney–client privilege would protect communications with Saul Goodman,[209] and whether Walter White could have filed a lawsuit to force his way back into Gray Matter Technologies.[210]

References[edit]


^ Poniewozik, James (June 21, 2010). "Breaking Bad: TV's Best Thriller". Time. Archived from the original on October 12, 2018. Retrieved November 5, 2013.

^ Nevins, Bill (March 27, 2013). "Contemporary Western: An Interview with Vince Gilligan". Local IQ. Archived from the original on April 3, 2013. Retrieved May 31, 2013.

^ "Breaking Bad Finale: Lost Interviews With Bryan Cranston & Vince Gilligan". The Daily Beast. September 29, 2013. Archived from the original on March 7, 2014. Retrieved March 6, 2014.

^ Sources that refer to Breaking Bad being considered a black comedy include:
McFarland, Kevin (August 6, 2013). "The Writers' Strike of 2007–08 Changed Breaking Bad for the Better". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on September 10, 2013. Retrieved August 31, 2013.
Snierson, Dan (July 13, 2012). "'Breaking Bad': Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, Vince Gilligan Reveal Season 5 Details". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on July 3, 2014. Retrieved August 31, 2013.
Fienberg, Daniel (July 13, 2012). "Comic-Con 2012 Live-Blog: AMC's 'Breaking Bad'". HitFix. Archived from the original on September 27, 2013. Retrieved August 31, 2013.
Bland, Archie (August 8, 2013). "Breaking Bad: Why Life Won't Be the Same Without This Radical American Television Drama". The Independent. Archived from the original on February 27, 2019. Retrieved September 1, 2013.

^ "TRAGEDY IN SLOW MOTION: AMC'S BREAKING BAD". Filmmaker Magazine. December 22, 2011. Archived from the original on July 1, 2020. Retrieved December 21, 2019.

^ Chisum, Jeffrey (November 22, 2019). "The Macbeth of the American West: Tragedy, genre and landscape in Breaking Bad". SAGE Publishing. 14 (4): 415–428. doi:10.1177/1749602019872655. S2CID 214260295.

^ McCluskey, Megan (October 10, 2019). "Aaron Paul Can Prove the Breaking Bad Cult Following Is Stronger Than Ever". Time. Archived from the original on December 27, 2023. Retrieved December 27, 2023.

^ "Critics Pick the Best TV Shows of the Last 25 Years". Rotten Tomatoes. July 18, 2023. Archived from the original on August 5, 2023. Retrieved August 6, 2023.

^ Snierson, Dan (July 17, 2018). "Better Call Saul to show scenes set during Breaking Bad". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on July 17, 2018. Retrieved July 17, 2018.

^ Neuman, Clayton (February 10, 2008). "Q&A: Bryan Cranston (Walt White) – Part I". AMC. Archived from the original on February 4, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Neuman, Clayton (March 24, 2008). "Q&A: Anna Gunn (Skyler White)". AMC. Archived from the original on December 24, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Neuman, Clayton (February 25, 2008). "Q&A: Aaron Paul (Jesse Pinkman) – Part I". AMC. Archived from the original on March 4, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Neuman, Clayton (March 3, 2008). "Q&A: Dean Norris (Hank Schrader)". AMC. Archived from the original on March 4, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Neuman, Clayton (February 28, 2008). "Q&A: Betsy Brandt (Marie Schrader)". AMC. Archived from the original on December 27, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ "RJ Mitte as Walter White Jr". AMC. Archived from the original on December 18, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Neuman, Clayton (March 11, 2008). "Q&A: RJ Mitte (Walter Jr.)". AMC. Archived from the original on January 9, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Neuman, Clayton (April 27, 2010). "Q&A – Giancarlo Esposito (Gus Fring)". AMC. Archived from the original on December 13, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Neuman, Clayton (April 30, 2009). "Q&A – Bob Odenkirk (Saul Goodman)". AMC. Archived from the original on December 20, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Neuman, Clayton (November 12, 2009). "Q&A – Jonathan Banks (Mike "The Cleaner")". AMC. Archived from the original on August 9, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ a b Klosterman, Chuck (July 12, 2011). "Bad Decisions". Grantland. Archived from the original on November 14, 2013. Retrieved July 17, 2011.

^ a b Goodman, Tim (July 13, 2011). "'Breaking Bad': Dark Side of the Dream". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 28, 2019. Retrieved July 17, 2011.

^ a b Bowles, Scott (July 13, 2011). "'Breaking Bad' Shows Man at His Worst in Season 4". USA Today. Archived from the original on July 18, 2011. Retrieved July 26, 2011.

^ a b Ginsberg, Merle (July 16, 2011). "'Breaking Bad' Star Bryan Cranston on Walter White: 'He's Well on His Way to Badass' (Q&A)". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on July 20, 2011. Retrieved July 26, 2011.

^ a b c d e f g Dibdin, Emma (January 16, 2018). "'It Had Never Been Done on Television Before': The Oral History of Breaking Bad". Esquire. Archived from the original on July 17, 2019. Retrieved July 25, 2019.

^ "Vince Gilligan Explains Why Breaking Bad Is Called Breaking Bad". American Film Institute. June 4, 2010. Archived from the original on July 29, 2018. Retrieved November 17, 2010.

^ Rothman, Lily, Rothman, Lily (September 23, 2013). "Breaking Bad: What Does That Phrase Actually Mean?". Time. Archived from the original on January 24, 2014. Retrieved March 9, 2014.

^ a b Callaghan, Dylan (2012). Script Tease: Today's Hottest Screenwriters Bare All. Adams Media. pp. 83–4. ISBN 978-1-4405-4176-6.

^ a b c d e f Rose, Lacey; Hunt, Stacey Wilson (July 11, 2012). "Bleak, Brutal, Brilliant 'Breaking Bad': Inside the Smash Hit That Almost Never Got Made". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 8, 2019. Retrieved July 1, 2019.

^ "Vince Gilligan Talks 'Breaking Bad' Beginnings, 'Weeds'". The Huffington Post. July 17, 2012. Archived from the original on July 19, 2012. Retrieved October 23, 2012.

^ a b "AMC Breaking Bad with Bryan Cranston". IGN. June 20, 2007. Archived from the original on November 8, 2012. Retrieved January 16, 2008.

^ Potts, Kimberly (November 26, 2013). "'Breaking Bad' Spinoff Scoop From the Man Who Created Saul Goodman". Yahoo! News. Archived from the original on August 14, 2018. Retrieved August 14, 2018.

^ Brown, Lane (May 12, 2013). "In Conversation: Vince Gilligan on the End of Breaking Bad". Vulture. Archived from the original on October 5, 2018. Retrieved June 10, 2013.

^ "Series 'Breaking Bad' to Begin Production at Albuquerque Studios". Albuquerque Studios. August 23, 2007. Archived from the original on October 14, 2007. Retrieved August 23, 2007.

^ Gilligan, Vince (August 2, 2011). Breaking Bad Insider 403 (Podcast). Breaking Bad Insider Podcast.  Event occurs at 7:17–7:50.

^ Dixon, Kelley (September 30, 2013). "Breaking Bad Insider Podcast" (Podcast). iTunes Store. Archived from the original on December 25, 2013. Retrieved December 3, 2013.

^ Littleton, Cynthia (June 13, 2010). "AMC, Sony Make 'Bad' Budget Work". Variety. Archived from the original on May 4, 2017. Retrieved November 8, 2015.

^ a b c d Keegan, Rebecca (September 18, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Returns: Aaron Paul and Vince Gilligan Take a TV Classic for a Spin in 'El Camino'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on September 20, 2019. Retrieved September 18, 2019.

^ Hernandez, Brian Anthony (February 24, 2014). "All 'Breaking Bad' Episodes Are Now on Netflix". Mashable. Archived from the original on September 12, 2014. Retrieved September 13, 2014.

^ Rhodes, Joe (July 15, 2011). "Shattering All Vestiges of Innocence". The New York Times. Archived from the original on December 13, 2017. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Hibberd, James (August 1, 2011). "'Breaking Bad' Shopped to Other Networks as Fifth (and Final?) Season Renewal Talks Drag On". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on September 30, 2011. Retrieved August 2, 2011.

^ a b Andreeva, Nellie (August 14, 2011). "AMC & Sony TV Reach Deal for 16-Episode Final Order of 'Breaking Bad'". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on June 18, 2012. Retrieved August 14, 2011.

^ Stoute, Scott (April 11, 2012). "'Breaking Bad' Season 5 Will Air in 2012 & 2013". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on June 26, 2020. Retrieved June 24, 2020.

^ a b c d e Segal, David (July 6, 2011). "The Dark Art of 'Breaking Bad'". The New York Times. Archived from the original on July 16, 2011. Retrieved July 25, 2011.

^ Schillaci, Sophie (September 30, 2013). "Vince Gilligan on 'Breaking Bad's' 'The Searchers' Parallels: 'We Stole From the Best'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on July 17, 2015. Retrieved March 7, 2020.

^ a b Sepinwall, Alan (March 6, 2009). "Sepinwall on TV: Bryan Cranston talks 'Breaking Bad' season two". The Star-Ledger. Archived from the original on November 16, 2011. Retrieved July 25, 2011.

^ Weingus, Leigh (July 16, 2012). "'Breaking Bad': John Cusack, Matthew Broderick Turned Down Walter White Role". The Huffington Post. Archived from the original on June 5, 2013. Retrieved October 9, 2013.

^ Rosenblum, Emma (March 13, 2009). "Bleak House". New York. Archived from the original on February 7, 2012. Retrieved July 25, 2011.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (March 6, 2009). "Breaking Bad: Bryan Cranston/Vince Gilligan Q&A". The Star-Ledger. Archived from the original on October 22, 2013. Retrieved October 21, 2013.

^ Laporte, Nicole (May 14, 2013). "Bryan Cranston on How to Collaborate the 'Breaking Bad' Way". Fast Company. Archived from the original on October 22, 2013. Retrieved October 21, 2013.

^ "Breaking Bad – Aaron Paul Almost Got Killed Off (Paley Interview)". Paley Center. March 4, 2010. Archived from the original on August 16, 2017. Retrieved August 2, 2011.

^ Couch, Aaron (March 24, 2015). "How 'X-Files' Gave Birth to 'Breaking Bad'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on July 18, 2019. Retrieved July 17, 2019.

^ Cyriaque, Lamar (July 14, 2012). "We Talk to the Cast of Breaking Bad about Science, Swearing, and Saul Goodman". io9. Archived from the original on September 28, 2015. Retrieved March 5, 2013.

^ Gross, Terry (September 19, 2011). "'Breaking Bad': Vince Gilligan on Meth and Morals". NPR.org. NPR. Archived from the original on June 29, 2013. Retrieved March 5, 2013.

^ Creghton, Jennifer (October 17, 2011). "Scientist Spotlight: Donna Nelson". The Science and Entertainment Exchange. Archived from the original on February 18, 2013. Retrieved March 5, 2013.

^ Reiher, Andrea (August 12, 2013). "'Mythbusters' 'Breaking Bad': Methbusters prove and disprove 2 iconic Season 1 moments". Screener. Archived from the original on March 7, 2017. Retrieved March 6, 2017.

^ Trumbore, Dave (September 26, 2013). "Fact-Checking the Science of BREAKING BAD: From Fulminated Mercury to FeLiNa [Updated: The Dangers of Homebrewing, DIY Batteries and More on Ricin]". Collider. Archived from the original on August 27, 2017. Retrieved August 27, 2017.

^ Ohah, Anna (August 13, 2013). "'MythBusters' proves 'Breaking Bad's' Walt needs some more schooling". Today. Archived from the original on December 22, 2019. Retrieved January 13, 2020.

^ Dornbrush, Jonathan (August 27, 2015). "Mythbusters tests Breaking Bad finale trunk machine gun scene". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on January 14, 2020. Retrieved January 13, 2020.

^ Snierson, Dan (February 5, 2019). "Watch Mythbusters Jr. put Breaking Bad's monster magnet to the test". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on August 9, 2020. Retrieved January 13, 2020.

^ Nagai, Wilhelm Nagajosi; Kanao, Seïzo (February 1929). "Über die Synthese der isomeren Ephedrine und ihrer Homologen" [On the synthesis of isomeric ephedrines and their homologues]. Justus Liebig's Annalen der Chemie (in German). 470 (1): 157–182. doi:10.1002/jlac.19294700110. Archived from the original on September 5, 2022. Retrieved September 5, 2022.

^ Wallach, Jason (August 11, 2013). "A Comprehensive Guide to Cooking Meth on 'Breaking Bad'". Vice. Archived from the original on July 28, 2014. Retrieved March 3, 2014.

^ a b Harnish, Falk; Salthammer, Tunga (August 2013). "Die Chemie bei Breaking Bad: Ein Chemiker als Serienprotagonist" [The chemistry of Breaking Bad: A chemist as the protagonist of the series] (PDF). Chemie in unserer Zeit (in German). 47 (4): 214–221. doi:10.1002/ciuz.201300612. Archived (PDF) from the original on September 17, 2020. Retrieved July 7, 2020. English Version Archived September 5, 2022, at the Wayback Machine Retrieved September 5, 2022.

^ Labuza, Peter (September 5, 2012). "'Breaking Bad' Director of Photography Michael Slovis Talks About Shaping the Look of the Most Cinematic Show on Television". Indiewire. Archived from the original on September 28, 2015. Retrieved September 27, 2015.

^ a b c "Breaking Bad". Emmys.com. Archived from the original on March 28, 2016. Retrieved September 27, 2015.

^ St. John, Allen (September 26, 2013). "Working Bad: Cinematographer Michael Slovis On 35mm Film, HDTV, And How 'Breaking Bad' Stuck The Landing". Forbes. Archived from the original on July 1, 2019. Retrieved July 1, 2019.

^ "Q&A – Kelley Dixon (Editor)". AMC. May 2013. Archived from the original on September 28, 2015. Retrieved September 27, 2015.

^ Porter, Rick (September 9, 2013). "'Breaking Bad' complete series Blu-ray includes 2-hour documentary, alternate ending". Zap2it. Archived from the original on November 22, 2013. Retrieved November 18, 2013.

^ Sciretta, Peter (September 23, 2013). "Geek Deal: 30% Off The 'Breaking Bad: The Complete Series' Collector's Set". /Film. Archived from the original on November 26, 2013. Retrieved November 18, 2013.

^ Harnick, Chris (November 17, 2013). "'Breaking Bad' Reveals Wonderful Alternate Ending With 'Malcolm in the Middle,' Jane Kaczmarek". The Huffington Post. Archived from the original on November 18, 2013. Retrieved November 18, 2013.

^ Teti, John (November 17, 2013). "Watch this: In Breaking Bad's alternate ending, Bryan Cranston discovers it was all a Malcolm In The Middle dream". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on November 18, 2013. Retrieved November 18, 2013.

^ "AMC Renews Award Winning Drama Series Breaking Bad for Third Season" (Press release). AMC. April 2, 2009. Archived from the original on February 4, 2013. Retrieved November 17, 2010.

^ Lambert, David (March 28, 2011). "Breaking Bad – Press Release, Package Art, Extras for 'The Complete 3rd Season' DVDs, Blu-rays". TVShowsOnDVD.com. Archived from the original on October 18, 2012. Retrieved March 28, 2011.

^ "AMC Renews Emmy(R) Award-Winning and Critical Hit "Breaking Bad" for Fourth Season" (Press release). AMC. June 14, 2010. Archived from the original on May 26, 2012. Retrieved November 17, 2010.

^ "AMC Begins Production on 'Breaking Bad' Season Four" (Press release). AMC. January 7, 2011. Archived from the original on September 11, 2012. Retrieved January 11, 2011.

^ "Video: AMC Announces "Breaking Bad" Season Four Premiere Sunday, July 17 at 10PM ET/PT" (Press release). AMC. May 31, 2011. Archived from the original on September 18, 2012. Retrieved October 12, 2011.

^ "'Breaking Bad' Won't Be Back Until July 2011: Plans for Mini-Episodes Online". Deadline Hollywood. August 4, 2010. Archived from the original on February 22, 2011. Retrieved January 3, 2011.

^ "Exclusive: Bryan Cranston Talks Breaking Bad Season 3 and 4, Total Recall, Drive, Rock of Ages, Larry Crowne & Lincoln Lawyer". Collider. June 1, 2011. Archived from the original on April 26, 2019. Retrieved June 14, 2011.

^ Ausiello, Michael (April 17, 2013). "AMC Announces Breaking Bad's Final Premiere Date, Confirms Launch of 'Spin-Off'". TVLine. Archived from the original on April 20, 2013. Retrieved April 17, 2013.

^ Shatkin, Elina (August 2, 2013). "'Breaking Bad': The Ozymandias Trailer That's Driving Everyone Crazy & Making Them Swoon". Los Angeles Magazine. Archived from the original on April 3, 2017. Retrieved April 2, 2017.

^ Douthat, Ross (July 28, 2011). "Good and Evil on Cable". The New York Times. Archived from the original on May 23, 2013. Retrieved January 2, 2012.

^ a b Meslow, Scott (July 23, 2013). "On 'Breaking Bad,' Family Is a Motivation and a Liability". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on September 18, 2018. Retrieved August 13, 2013.

^ Simmons, Chris (April 19, 2010). "'Breaking Bad' Season 3, Episode 5, 'Mas,': TV Recap". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on September 18, 2018. Retrieved August 13, 2013.

^ Bowman, Donna (May 24, 2009). "Phoenix". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on August 27, 2013. Retrieved August 13, 2013.

^ Heritage, Stuart (September 30, 2015). "Breaking Bad's Lydia: 'Drinking camomile tea with milk is disgusting'". The Guardian. Archived from the original on October 4, 2015. Retrieved November 11, 2015.

^ Baysa, Heather (July 30, 2013). "Breaking Bad's Vince Gilligan Reveals the Exact Moment Walter White 'Broke Bad' Forever". The Village Voice. Archived from the original on January 26, 2021. Retrieved February 27, 2021.

^ Rothman, Lily (September 16, 2013). "'Ozymandias': What Does That 'Breaking Bad' Episode Title Mean?". Time. ISSN 0040-781X. Archived from the original on November 11, 2020. Retrieved February 27, 2021.

^ Gonzalez, Maricela. "10 things you may have missed this week on 'Breaking Bad'". EW.com. Archived from the original on November 12, 2020. Retrieved February 27, 2021.

^ Gill, Austin (January 1, 2015). "On the Appropriation of Shelley's 'Ozymandias' in AMC's Breaking Bad". Xavier Journal of Undergraduate Research. 3 (1). Archived from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved February 27, 2021.

^ Rasmussen, Douglas Eric (July 17, 2020). "The Rise and Fall of Walter White's Empire". Mise-en-Scène: The Journal of Film & Visual Narration. 5 (1). ISSN 2369-5056. Archived from the original on August 14, 2020. Retrieved February 27, 2021.

^ Couch, Aaron (September 29, 2013). "'Breaking Bad' Series Finale: 5 Most Shocking Quotes". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 5, 2021. Retrieved February 27, 2021.

^ Neuman, Clayton (February 17, 2009). "Watch Five Original Breaking Bad Minisodes". AMC Blog. Archived from the original on May 31, 2012. Retrieved May 27, 2012.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (May 31, 2009). "Breaking Bad: Vince Gilligan Season Two Finale Interview". The Star-Ledger. Archived from the original on June 16, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.

^ a b Gajewski, Josh (May 31, 2009). "'Breaking Bad': Perfect Season Ends with a Falling Sky". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 9, 2012. Retrieved June 8, 2012.

^ Poniewozik, James (June 1, 2009). "Breaking Bad Watch: Crash". Time. Archived from the original on January 20, 2013. Retrieved June 8, 2012.

^ Neuman, Clayton (May 31, 2009). "Creator Vince Gilligan Answers Fan Questions". AMC. Archived from the original on May 12, 2015. Retrieved May 29, 2012.

^ Stephenson, Hunter (June 4, 2009). "Breaking Bad's Season Finale "ABQ" Gives Ridiculous New Meaning to the Words "Left Behind." Body Bags, Secret Codes, and the Teddy Bear Discussed". Slashfilm. Archived from the original on October 21, 2018. Retrieved August 8, 2013.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (May 21, 2009). "Breaking Bad, "ABQ": Reviewing the Season Finale". The Star-Ledger. Archived from the original on October 2, 2013. Retrieved August 8, 2013.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (May 31, 2009). "Vince Gilligan Post-Mortems Season 2 Finale". What's Alan Watching. Archived from the original on April 21, 2019. Retrieved January 2, 2012.

^ McNutt, Myles (July 17, 2011). "Breaking Bad: 'Box Cutter'". Cultural Learnings. Archived from the original on July 19, 2011. Retrieved January 2, 2012.

^ Bowman, Donna (March 21, 2010). "No Mas". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on June 10, 2012. Retrieved May 22, 2012.

^ Amitin, Seth (October 9, 2011). "Breaking Bad: "Face Off" Review". IGN. Archived from the original on September 10, 2012. Retrieved January 3, 2011.

^ Coulehan, Erin (September 20, 2013). "'Breaking Bad' Selling Off Charred Teddy Bear, Walt's Aztek". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on September 23, 2013. Retrieved November 19, 2013.

^ Billups, Andrea (September 22, 2013). "Breaking Bad Auction: Win Walter White's Undies!". People. Archived from the original on November 18, 2013. Retrieved November 19, 2013.

^ Villapaz, Luke (September 27, 2013). "'Breaking Bad' Color Theory: The Subtle Symbolism And Meanings Behind The Colors In AMC's Hit Series [PHOTOS]". International Business Times. Archived from the original on February 2, 2022. Retrieved January 21, 2022.

^ Flaherty, Mike (May 16, 2011). "The Showrunner Transcript: Breaking Bad's Vince Gilligan on Season Four and His Experiences on The X-Files". Vulture. Archived from the original on January 21, 2022. Retrieved January 21, 2022.

^ Seitz, Matt Zoller (September 3, 2012). "Breaking Bad Recap: Walt, Anonymous?". Vulture. Archived from the original on September 18, 2018. Retrieved November 16, 2012.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (September 6, 2012). "'Breaking Bad' Creator Vince Gilligan on Poetry Books, Time Jumps and the End for Walter White". HitFix. Archived from the original on August 11, 2013. Retrieved November 16, 2012.

^ Shields, Michael (August 4, 2012). "Walter White vs. Walt Whitman". Across the Margin. Archived from the original on October 21, 2016. Retrieved November 16, 2012.

^ VanDerWerff, Emily (September 3, 2012). "'Breaking Bad' Recap: Crystal Blue Persuasion". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on March 21, 2019. Retrieved January 7, 2020.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 1". Rotten Tomatoes. Archived from the original on May 23, 2019. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ a b "Breaking Bad: Season 1". Metacritic. Archived from the original on February 28, 2012. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 2". Rotten Tomatoes. Archived from the original on May 23, 2019. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ a b "Breaking Bad: Season 2". Metacritic. Archived from the original on February 26, 2012. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 3". Rotten Tomatoes. Archived from the original on May 23, 2019. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ a b "Breaking Bad: Season 3". Metacritic. Archived from the original on March 2, 2012. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 4". Rotten Tomatoes. Archived from the original on June 26, 2019. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ a b "Breaking Bad: Season 4". Metacritic. Archived from the original on March 18, 2012. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 5". Rotten Tomatoes. Archived from the original on May 23, 2019. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ a b "Breaking Bad: Season 5". Metacritic. Archived from the original on August 19, 2012. Retrieved April 3, 2019.

^ Sources that refer to Breaking Bad being praised as one of the greatest television shows of all time include:
Moore, Frazier (December 18, 2013). "2013 brought surprises, good and bad, to viewers". Associated Press. Archived from the original on December 24, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
St. John, Allen (September 16, 2013). "Why 'Breaking Bad' Is The Best Show Ever And Why That Matters". Forbes. Archived from the original on December 26, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
Bianculli, David (December 23, 2013). "Great New DVD Box Sets: Blasts From The Past And 'Breaking Bad'". NPR.org. NPR. Archived from the original on December 23, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
"2013's 10 Best and Worst TV Shows, From Good 'Breaking Bad' to Bad 'Broke Girls'". Yahoo TV. December 19, 2013. Archived from the original on February 12, 2021. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
Hickey, Walter (September 29, 2013). "Breaking Bad Is The Greatest Show Ever Made". Business Insider. Archived from the original on December 24, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
Lawson, Richard (July 13, 2012). "The Case for 'Breaking Bad' as Television's Best Show". The Wire. Archived from the original on December 24, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
Ryan, Maureen (July 11, 2012). "'Breaking Bad': Five Reasons It's One of TV's All-Time Greats". The Huffington Post. Archived from the original on September 21, 2013. Retrieved July 15, 2013.

^ "AFI Awards 2008". The American Film Institute. Archived from the original on March 16, 2015. Retrieved October 6, 2013.

^ Finke, Nikki (December 12, 2010). "AFI Top 10 Film/TV Awards Official Selections". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on February 10, 2014. Retrieved February 21, 2020.

^ Truong, Peggy (December 12, 2011). "AFI Awards 2011: Bridesmaids, The Good Wife among Best in Film and TV". International Business Times. Archived from the original on January 31, 2012. Retrieved December 14, 2011.

^ Abramovitch, Seth (December 10, 2012). "AFI Names Best Movies and TV Series of 2012". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on December 12, 2012. Retrieved October 6, 2013.

^ Hare, Breeanna (December 9, 2013). "AFI names 10 best movies, TV shows of 2013". CNN. Archived from the original on January 10, 2014. Retrieved January 10, 2014.

^ Fretts, Bruce; Roush, Matt (December 23, 2013). "TV Guide Magazine's 60 Best Series of All Time". TV Guide. Archived from the original on January 15, 2018. Retrieved October 17, 2015.

^ Adalian, Josef (August 12, 2013). "Breaking Bad Returns to Its Biggest Ratings Ever". Vulture. Archived from the original on November 23, 2017. Retrieved September 11, 2013.

^ "Hollywood's 100 Favorite TV Shows". The Hollywood Reporter. September 16, 2015. Archived from the original on July 17, 2019. Retrieved July 17, 2019.

^ Sheffield, Rob (September 21, 2016). "100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on September 23, 2016. Retrieved September 22, 2016.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (September 26, 2022). "The 100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on September 29, 2022. Retrieved September 30, 2022.

^ "The 100 best TV shows of the 21st century". The Guardian. September 16, 2019. Archived from the original on November 1, 2019. Retrieved November 3, 2019.

^ "The 100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time". Empire. March 24, 2021. Archived from the original on April 15, 2021. Retrieved April 15, 2021.

^ St. John, Allen (September 16, 2013). "Why 'Breaking Bad' Is The Best Show Ever And Why That Matters". Forbes. Archived from the original on December 26, 2013. Retrieved April 16, 2021.

^ "The 100 greatest TV series of the 21st Century". BBC. October 18, 2021. Archived from the original on March 22, 2023. Retrieved November 1, 2021.

^ "The 100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time". Variety. December 20, 2023. Archived from the original on December 21, 2023. Retrieved December 21, 2023.

^ Bianco, Robert (January 17, 2008). "'Breaking' Is Far from Bad; It's Fantastic". USA Today. Archived from the original on December 20, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Tucker, Ken (March 8, 2009). "Breaking Bad Review". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on December 29, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Goodman, Tim (March 6, 2009). "TV review: 'Breaking Bad' Proves Anything But". San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on January 31, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ King, Stephen (March 6, 2009). "Stephen King: I Love 'Breaking Bad'!". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on January 6, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Poniewosik, James (March 19, 2010). "TV Weekend: Breaking Bad's White-Hot Slow Burn". Time. Archived from the original on June 6, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Gay, Verne (March 19, 2010). ""Breaking Bad:" Still Bad, in a Good Way". Newsday. Archived from the original on September 22, 2013. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Goodman, Tim (March 19, 2010). "TV Review: 'Breaking Bad' Premiere". San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on April 21, 2023. Retrieved January 2, 2012.

^ Bowman, Donna (June 13, 2010). "Breaking Bad: Full Measure". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on January 4, 2012. Retrieved January 2, 2012.

^ Gilbert, Matthew (July 15, 2011). "A Gripping Portrait of Change". The Boston Globe. Archived from the original on August 10, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Owen, Rob (July 17, 2011). "Tuned In: 'Breaking Bad' Is Back and Better Than Ever". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Archived from the original on January 13, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Koo, Carolyn (December 30, 2011). "Breaking Bad Makes Best of Lists for 2011 of the Boston Globe, New York, and Collider". AMC. Archived from the original on January 7, 2012. Retrieved January 3, 2012.

^ Poniewozik, James (December 21, 2011). "What Were the Best TV Lines of 2011?". Time. Archived from the original on January 7, 2012. Retrieved January 3, 2012.

^ Owen, Rob (December 22, 2011). "Best TV Show: 'Breaking Bad'". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Archived from the original on March 7, 2012. Retrieved January 2, 2012.

^ Bowman, Donna (October 9, 2011). "Breaking Bad: 'Face Off'". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on January 8, 2012. Retrieved January 3, 2012.

^ Harley, Nick (September 30, 2013). "Breaking Bad: Felina, Review". Den of Geek. Archived from the original on October 2, 2013. Retrieved September 30, 2013.

^ Martin, George R. R. (September 16, 2013). "Breaking Bad". Not A Blog. Archived from the original on September 18, 2013. Retrieved October 3, 2013.

^ Amitin, Seth (October 3, 2013). "Breaking Bad: The Final Season Review". IGN. Archived from the original on November 5, 2018. Retrieved October 4, 2013.

^ Goldberg, Jonah (August 19, 2013). "Breaking Bad Breaks Through". National Review. Archived from the original on October 27, 2014. Retrieved August 20, 2014.

^ Moaba, Alex (October 15, 2013). "Anthony Hopkins' 'Breaking Bad' Fan Letter To Bryan Cranston Is Awesome". The Huffington Post. Archived from the original on October 18, 2013. Retrieved November 18, 2013.

^ Hopkins, Anthony (October 17, 2013). "Anthony Hopkins's letter to Breaking Bad star Bryan Cranston". The Guardian. Archived from the original on November 2, 2013. Retrieved November 18, 2013.

^ Derschowitz, Jessica (October 15, 2013). "Anthony Hopkins writes fan letter praising Bryan Cranston, "Breaking Bad"". CBS News. Archived from the original on October 29, 2013. Retrieved November 18, 2013.

^ Janela, Mike (September 4, 2013). "Breaking Bad Cooks Up Record-breaking Formula for Guinness World Records 2014 Edition". Guinness World Records. Archived from the original on October 24, 2013. Retrieved September 9, 2013.

^ Couch, Aaron (September 5, 2013). "'Breaking Bad' Sets Guinness World Record". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 5, 2014. Retrieved May 5, 2014.

^ Ewing, Blake (September 20, 2013). "Breaking Bad Normalizes Meth, Argues Prosecutor". Time. Archived from the original on June 20, 2020. Retrieved April 23, 2020.

^ "Breaking Bad blamed for shocking rise in crystal meth usage". The Telegraph. November 3, 2014. Archived from the original on November 9, 2020. Retrieved April 23, 2020.

^ Braiker, Brian (October 1, 2013). "Was 'Breaking Bad' Good for the Meth Business?". Digiday. Archived from the original on August 5, 2020. Retrieved April 23, 2020.

^ a b O'Connell, Michael (September 30, 2013). "TV Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Finale Smashes Records With 10.3 Million Viewers". Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on September 11, 2019. Retrieved July 16, 2015.

^ Levin, Gary (March 11, 2008). "Nielsens: 'Runway' finale rules on cable". USA Today. Archived from the original on May 3, 2017. Retrieved November 19, 2013.

^ a b Crupi, Anthony (September 30, 2013). "Breaking Bad Finale Draws 10.3 Million Viewers". Adweek. Archived from the original on September 25, 2019. Retrieved June 15, 2015.

^ Seidman, Robert (March 10, 2009). "iCarly, Burn Notice and WWE RAW top cable charts". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 17, 2012. Retrieved June 20, 2011.

^ Levin, Gary (June 5, 2009). "Nielsens: 'Jon & Kate' plus big ratings". USA Today. Archived from the original on September 21, 2013. Retrieved July 3, 2015.

^ a b Hibberd, James (July 16, 2012). "'Breaking Bad' returns to record premiere ratings". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on March 12, 2015. Retrieved June 16, 2015.

^ Julia (April 7, 2010). "Breaking Bad Season 3 Ratings". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on November 26, 2010. Retrieved November 10, 2010.

^ Gorman, Bill (June 15, 2010). "Sunday Cable Ratings: True Blood, Breaking Bad, Army Wives, Drop Dead Diva & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on June 20, 2011. Retrieved November 8, 2010.

^ "2010 Year in Review/2011 Year in Preview: AMC". The Futon Critic. January 24, 2011. Archived from the original on January 4, 2013. Retrieved June 15, 2015.

^ Seidman, Robert (July 19, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Slips, 'Falling Skies' Steady + 'Breaking Bad,' 'Leverage,' 'In Plain Sight,' 'The Glades' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on July 22, 2011. Retrieved July 19, 2011.

^ Gorman, Bill (October 11, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: Nothing Keeps Up With Kardashians; Plus 'Housewives NJ' Finale, 'Boardwalk Empire,' 'Breaking Bad,' 'Dexter' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 13, 2011. Retrieved October 11, 2011.

^ a b "AMC's "Breaking Bad" Breaks Records by Growing More Than Any Other Season 4 Drama in Basic Cable History for Adults 18–49". The Futon Critic. October 10, 2011. Archived from the original on January 22, 2016. Retrieved June 15, 2015.

^ Kondolojy, Amanda (July 17, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Beats 'Breaking Bad' Premiere, + 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians', 'Very Funny News', 'Real Housewives of New Jersey', 'Falling Skies' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on July 18, 2012. Retrieved July 17, 2012.

^ Bibel, Sara (September 5, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings: NASCAR Wins Night, 'Breaking Bad', 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians', 'Leverage', 'Hell on Wheels', 'Married to Jonas', & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 8, 2012. Retrieved September 5, 2012.

^ a b "Breaking Bad: Season Five Ratings". TV Series Finale. October 2, 2013. Archived from the original on March 28, 2016. Retrieved June 14, 2015.

^ Bibel, Sara (August 13, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Night, 'True Blood', 'Low Winter Sun', 'Devious Maids', 'Dexter', 'The Newsroom' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 16, 2013. Retrieved August 13, 2013.

^ Bibel, Sara (October 1, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Big, 'Talking Bad', 'Homeland', 'Boardwalk Empire','Masters of Sex' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 24, 2013. Retrieved October 1, 2013.

^ "2010 Year in Review/2011 Year in Preview: AMC". The Futon Critic. January 24, 2011. Archived from the original on January 4, 2013. Retrieved June 15, 2015.

^ "'Lost,' YouTube among Peabody winners". The Hollywood Reporter. April 1, 2009. Archived from the original on June 4, 2021. Retrieved August 19, 2023.

^ Andreeva, Nellie (April 2, 2014). "House Of Cards, Scandal, Breaking Bad, The Bridge, Key & Peele, Orphan Black, Orange Is The New Black Win Peabodys". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on August 14, 2014. Retrieved August 19, 2023.

^ "'Mad Men' and Bryan Cranston Three-peat at Emmys While Kyra Sedgwick Finally Wins". Los Angeles Times. August 29, 2010. Archived from the original on September 27, 2013. Retrieved November 26, 2010.

^ Hayner, Chris E. (February 18, 2013). "Writers Guild Awards 2013: Full Winners List". Zap2it. Archived from the original on February 20, 2013. Retrieved February 19, 2013.

^ "'101 Best Written TV Series of All Time' From WGA/TV Guide: Complete List". Deadline Hollywood. June 2, 2013. Archived from the original on June 7, 2013. Retrieved July 15, 2013.

^ a b c d Ryan, Maureen (January 19, 2018). "'Breaking Bad' 10th Anniversary: Writers Reunite to Reflect on What They Learned and That Final Season". Variety. Archived from the original on March 18, 2018. Retrieved March 18, 2018.

^ Bell, Amanda (March 26, 2019). "Skyler White Deserved So Much Better From Breaking Bad Fans". TV Guide. Archived from the original on June 17, 2023. Retrieved June 18, 2023.

^ Jones, Ellen E. (January 13, 2018). "Skyler White: the Breaking Bad underdog who set the template for TV's antiheroine". The Guardian. Archived from the original on June 16, 2023. Retrieved June 18, 2023.

^ Gunn, Anna (August 23, 2013). "I Have a Character Issue". The New York Times. Archived from the original on July 8, 2018. Retrieved June 18, 2023.

^ a b c d Snierson, Dan (June 30, 2018). "Breaking Bad alum Anna Gunn says Skyler backlash was 'important for me to go through'". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on June 16, 2023. Retrieved June 18, 2023.

^ Bergeson, Samantha (August 22, 2022). "Vince Gilligan Still 'Troubled' by Sexist 'Breaking Bad' Backlash to Skyler: Anna Gunn Didn't 'Deserve That'". IndieWire. Archived from the original on June 16, 2023. Retrieved June 18, 2023.

^ Davids, Brian (April 19, 2024). "'Sugar' Star Anna Gunn on "True Gent" Colin Farrell, 'Breaking Bad' Reunions and Rian Johnson's Unforgettable Gesture". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 19, 2024. Retrieved April 23, 2024.

^ a b Prudom, Laura (January 20, 2018). "Breaking Bad 10th Anniversary: Director Rian Johnson Looks Back at the Show's Legacy". IGN. Archived from the original on March 18, 2018. Retrieved March 18, 2018.

^ Todd vanDerWerff, Emily (February 3, 2015). "Better Call Saul's Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould on constructing the Breaking Bad spinoff". Vox. Archived from the original on April 7, 2020. Retrieved March 9, 2020.

^ Itzkoff, Dave (August 24, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Movie, Starring Aaron Paul, Coming to Netflix in October". The New York Times. Archived from the original on August 24, 2019. Retrieved August 24, 2019.

^ Patten, Dominic (May 10, 2013). "Univision Announces Adaptations of Breaking Bad & Gossip Girl for Hispanic Market". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on June 8, 2013. Retrieved May 14, 2013.

^ "AMC Announces Chris Hardwick as Host of 'Talking Bad'" (Press release). AMC. July 21, 2013. Archived from the original on May 12, 2015. Retrieved July 22, 2013.

^ Agar, Chris (June 6, 2019). "Breaking Bad: Criminal Elements Mobile Game Lets You Be Heisenberg". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on October 29, 2019. Retrieved October 29, 2019.

^ Gardner, Chris (October 21, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Restaurant Los Pollos Hermanos Comes to Life Via Virtual Restaurant". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 11, 2020. Retrieved October 21, 2019.

^ Elkins, Chris (April 11, 2018). "Is Pure Meth Blue?". AMC (Advanced Recovery Systems). Archived from the original on September 22, 2020. Retrieved September 24, 2020.

^ Kelley, Seth (March 11, 2015). "'Breaking Bad' Creator Urges Fans to Stop Throwing Pizzas on Walter White's Roof". Variety. Archived from the original on November 3, 2015. Retrieved November 8, 2015.

^ Perry, Spencer (February 1, 2015). "Walter White Returns in Extended Esurance Super Bowl Commercial". ComingSoon.net. Archived from the original on September 29, 2015. Retrieved November 8, 2015.

^ Flam, Charna (February 6, 2023). "Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul Peddle PopCorners in 'Breaking Bad'-Themed Super Bowl Commercial". Variety. Archived from the original on February 6, 2023. Retrieved February 6, 2023.

^ Gomez, Adrian (October 4, 2013). "'Breaking Bad' Fan group places paid obituary for Walter White". Albuquerque Journal. Archived from the original on December 29, 2013. Retrieved January 11, 2014.

^ Hare, Breeanna (October 22, 2013). "'Breaking Bad': Walter White laid to rest with mock funeral". CNN. Archived from the original on January 11, 2014. Retrieved January 11, 2014.

^ Grow, Kory (October 21, 2013). "Walter White Laid to Rest in 'Breaking Bad' Charity Funeral". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 23, 2013. Retrieved January 11, 2014.

^ Bergeson, Samantha (July 12, 2022). "'Breaking Bad' Statues Soon Unveiled in Albuquerque, New Mexico". IndieWire. Archived from the original on July 15, 2022. Retrieved July 15, 2022.

^ "New Mexico Law Review". May 2015. Archived from the original on May 6, 2021. Retrieved May 6, 2021.

^ "Law journal publishes special issue examining 'Breaking Bad'". May 19, 2015. Archived from the original on December 17, 2021. Retrieved May 6, 2021.

^ Adzhemyan, Armen (May 2015). "Better Call Saul: If You Want Discoverable Communications: The Misrepresentation of the Attorney-Client Privilege on Breaking Bad". New Mexico Law Review. 45 (2): 477. Archived from the original on May 6, 2021. Retrieved May 6, 2021.

^ Mims, Michael C. (May 2015). "Don't Bake — Litigate: A Practitioner's Guide on How Walter White Should Have Protected His Interests in Gray Matter, and His Litigation Options for Building an Empire Business through the Courts, not the Cartel". New Mexico Law Review. 45 (2): 673. Archived from the original on May 7, 2021. Retrieved May 6, 2021.


External links[edit]


Breaking Bad  at Wikipedia's sister projects

Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from CommonsQuotations from WikiquoteTravel information from WikivoyageData from Wikidata

Breaking Bad – official site at Sony Pictures
Breaking Bad on Netflix 
Breaking Bad at IMDb 
Breaking Bad at Emmys.com
Breaking Bad at Curlie
vteBreaking BadEpisodesSeason 1
"Pilot"
"Cat's in the Bag..."
"...And the Bag's in the River"
"Cancer Man"
"Gray Matter"
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"
Season 2
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
"Grilled"
"Bit by a Dead Bee"
"Down"
"Breakage"
"Peekaboo"
"Negro y Azul"
"Better Call Saul"
"4 Days Out"
"Over"
"Mandala"
"Phoenix"
"ABQ"
Season 3
"No Más"
"Caballo sin Nombre"
"I.F.T."
"Green Light"
"Más"
"Sunset"
"One Minute"
"I See You"
"Kafkaesque"
"Fly"
"Abiquiu"
"Half Measures"
"Full Measure"
Season 4
"Box Cutter"
"Thirty-Eight Snub"
"Open House"
"Bullet Points"
"Shotgun"
"Cornered"
"Problem Dog"
"Hermanos"
"Bug"
"Salud"
"Crawl Space"
"End Times"
"Face Off"
Season 5Part 1
"Live Free or Die"
"Madrigal"
"Hazard Pay"
"Fifty-One"
"Dead Freight"
"Buyout"
"Say My Name"
"Gliding Over All"
Part 2
"Blood Money"
"Buried"
"Confessions"
"Rabid Dog"
"To'hajiilee"
"Ozymandias"
"Granite State"
"Felina"
Characters
Walter White
Skyler White
Jesse Pinkman
Hank Schrader
Marie Schrader
Walter White Jr.
Saul Goodman
Gus Fring
Mike Ehrmantraut
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Better Call Saul
"Breaking Bad"
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Metástasis
Talking Bad
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Baby Blue"
Faking Bad
Spiralix heisenbergi
"What Animated Women Want"
"Pickle Rick"
"Plug Walk"
"Celebrity Booze: The Ultimate Cash Grab"

 Category
 WikiQuote
 WikiCommons

Awards for Breaking Bad
vteBAFTA TV Award for Best International Programme
Entourage (2007)
Heroes (2008)
Mad Men (2009)
Mad Men (2010)
The Killing (2011)
Borgen (2012)
Girls (2013)
Breaking Bad (2014)
True Detective (2015)
Transparent (2016)
The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story (2017)
The Handmaid's Tale (2018)
Succession (2019)
When They See Us (2020)
Welcome to Chechnya: The Gay Purge (Storyville) (2021)
The Underground Railroad (2022)
Dahmer – Monster: The Jeffrey Dahmer Story (2023)
Class Act (2024)

vteCritics' Choice Television Award for Best Drama Series2010s
Mad Men (season 4) (2011)
Homeland (season 1) (2012)
Breaking Bad (season 5, part I) / Game of Thrones (season 3) (2013)
Breaking Bad (season 5, part II) (2014)
The Americans (season 3) (2015)
Mr. Robot (season 1) (2016)
Game of Thrones (season 6) (2016)
The Handmaid's Tale (season 1) (2017)
The Americans (season 6) (2018)
Succession (season 2) (2019)
2020s
The Crown (season 4) (2020)
Succession (season 3) (2021)
Better Call Saul (season 6) (2022)
Succession (season 4) (2023)

vtePrimetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series1950s
Pulitzer Prize Playhouse (1951)
Studio One (1952)
Robert Montgomery Presents (Dramatic Program) / Dragnet (Mystery, Action or Adventure Program) (1953)
The United States Steel Hour (Dramatic Program) / Dragnet (Mystery, Action or Adventure Program) (1954)
The United States Steel Hour (Dramatic Series) / Dragnet (Mystery or Intrigue Series) / Stories of the Century (Western or Adventure Series) (1955)
Producers' Showcase (Dramatic Series) / Disneyland (Action or Adventure Series) (1956)
No Award (1957) 
Gunsmoke (Dramatic Series with Continuing Characters) / Playhouse 90 (Dramatic Anthology Series) (1958)
Alcoa-Goodyear Theatre (Less than One Hour) / Playhouse 90 (One Hour or Longer) / Maverick (Western Series) (1959)
1960s
Playhouse 90 (1960)
Hallmark Hall of Fame (1961)
The Defenders (1962)
The Defenders (1963)
The Defenders (1964)
No Award (1965) 
The Fugitive (season 3) (1966)
Mission: Impossible (season 1) (1967)
Mission: Impossible (season 2) (1968)
NET Playhouse (1969)
1970s
Marcus Welby, M.D. (1970)
The Bold Ones: The Senator (1971)
Elizabeth R (1972)
The Waltons (1973)
Upstairs, Downstairs (1974)
Upstairs, Downstairs (1975)
Police Story (1976)
Upstairs, Downstairs (1977)
The Rockford Files (season 4) (1978)
Lou Grant (season 2) (1979)
1980s
Lou Grant (season 3) (1980)
Hill Street Blues (1981)
Hill Street Blues (1982)
Hill Street Blues (1983)
Hill Street Blues (1984)
Cagney & Lacey (1985)
Cagney & Lacey (1986)
L.A. Law (1987)
Thirtysomething (1988)
L.A. Law (1989)
1990s
L.A. Law (1990)
L.A. Law (1991)
Northern Exposure (1992)
Picket Fences (1993)
Picket Fences (1994)
NYPD Blue (season 2) (1995)
ER (season 2) (1996)
Law & Order (season 7) (1997)
The Practice (1998)
The Practice (1999)
2000s
The West Wing (season 1) (2000)
The West Wing (season 2) (2001)
The West Wing (season 3) (2002)
The West Wing (season 4) (2003)
The Sopranos (season 5) (2004)
Lost (season 1) (2005)
24 (season 5) (2006)
The Sopranos (season 6) (2007)
Mad Men (season 1) (2008)
Mad Men (season 2) (2009)
2010s
Mad Men (season 3) (2010)
Mad Men (season 4) (2011)
Homeland (season 1) (2012)
Breaking Bad (season 5) (2013)
Breaking Bad (season 5) (2014)
Game of Thrones (season 5) (2015)
Game of Thrones (season 6) (2016)
The Handmaid's Tale (season 1) (2017)
Game of Thrones (season 7) (2018)
Game of Thrones (season 8) (2019)
2020s
Succession (season 2) (2020)
The Crown (season 4) (2021)
Succession (season 3) (2022)
Succession (season 4) (2023)

vteGolden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama1960s
Marcus Welby, M.D. (season 1) (1969)
1970s
Medical Center (season 1/season 2) (1970)
Mannix (season 4/season 5) (1971)
Columbo (season 1/season 2) (1972)
The Waltons (season 1/season 2) (1973)
Upstairs, Downstairs (season 3/season 4) (1974)
Kojak (season 2/season 3) (1975)
Rich Man, Poor Man (1976)
Roots (1977)
60 Minutes (1978)
Lou Grant (season 2/season 3) (1979)
1980s
Shōgun (1980)
Hill Street Blues (season 1/season 2) (1981)
Hill Street Blues (season 2/season 3) (1982)
Dynasty (season 3/season 4) (1983)
Murder, She Wrote (season 1) (1984)
Murder, She Wrote (season 1/season 2) (1985)
L.A. Law (season 1) (1986)
L.A. Law (season 1/season 2) (1987)
thirtysomething (season 1/season 2) (1988)
China Beach (season 2/season 3) (1989)
1990s
Twin Peaks (season 1/season 2) (1990)
Northern Exposure (season 2/season 3) (1991)
Northern Exposure (season 3/season 4) (1992)
NYPD Blue (season 1) (1993)
The X-Files (season 1/season 2) (1994)
Party of Five (season 1/season 2) (1995)
The X-Files (season 3/season 4) (1996)
The X-Files (season 4/season 5) (1997)
The Practice (season 2/season 3) (1998)
The Sopranos (season 1) (1999)
2000s
The West Wing (season 1/season 2) (2000)
Six Feet Under (season 1) (2001)
The Shield (season 1) (2002)
24 (season 2/season 3) (2003)
Nip/Tuck (season 2) (2004)
Lost (season 1/season 2) (2005)
Grey's Anatomy (season 2/season 3) (2006)
Mad Men (season 1) (2007)
Mad Men (season 2) (2008)
Mad Men (season 3) (2009)
2010s
Boardwalk Empire (season 1) (2010)
Homeland (season 1) (2011)
Homeland (season 2) (2012)
Breaking Bad (season 5, part II) (2013)
The Affair (season 1) (2014)
Mr. Robot (season 1) (2015)
The Crown (season 1) (2016)
The Handmaid's Tale (season 1) (2017)
The Americans (season 6) (2018)
Succession (season 2) (2019)
2020s
The Crown (season 4) (2020)
Succession (season 3) (2021)
House of the Dragon (season 1) (2022)
Succession (season 4) (2023)

vteProducers Guild of America Award for Best Episodic Drama1990s
Northern Exposure (season 1) (1991)
I'll Fly Away (season 1) (1992)
NYPD Blue (season 1) (1993)
ER (season 1) (1994)
No Award (1995)
Law & Order (season 6) (1996)
The Practice (season 2) (1998)
The Sopranos (season 1) (1999)
2000s
The West Wing (season 1) (2000)
The West Wing (season 2) (2001)
24 (season 1) (2002)
Six Feet Under (season 2) (2003)
The Sopranos (season 5) (2004)
Lost (season 1) (2005)
Grey's Anatomy (season 2) (2006)
The Sopranos (season 6, part II) (2007)
Mad Men (season 1) (2008)
Mad Men (season 2) (2009)
2010s
Mad Men (season 3) (2010)
Boardwalk Empire (season 1) (2011)
Homeland (season 1) (2012)
Breaking Bad (season 5, part I) (2013)
Breaking Bad (season 5, part II) (2014)
Game of Thrones (season 5) (2015)
Stranger Things (season 1) (2016)
The Handmaid's Tale (season 1) (2017)
The Americans (season 6) (2018)
Succession (season 2) (2019)
2020s
The Crown (season 4) (2020)
Succession (season 3) (2021)
The White Lotus (season 2) (2022)
Succession (season 4) (2023)

vteSatellite Award for Best Television Series – Drama
The X-Files (1996)
NYPD Blue (1997)
Oz (1998)
The West Wing (1999)
The West Wing (2000)
24 (2001)
CSI: Crime Scene Investigation (2002)
The Shield (2003)
Nip/Tuck (2004)
House (2005)
House (2006)
Dexter (2007)
Dexter (2008)
Breaking Bad (2009)
Breaking Bad (2010)
Justified (2011)
Homeland (2012)
Breaking Bad (2013)
The Knick (2014)
Better Call Saul (2015)
The Crown (2016)
Vikings (2017)
Homecoming (2018)
Succession (2019)
Better Call Saul (2020)
Squid Game (2021)
Billions (2022)
The Last of Us (2023)

vteSaturn Award for Best Syndicated/Cable Television Series1990s
The Outer Limits (1996)
The Outer Limits (1997)
Babylon 5 (1998)
Stargate SG-1 (1999)
2000s
Farscape (2000)
Farscape (2001)
Farscape (2002)
Stargate SG-1 (2003)
Stargate SG-1 (2004)
Battlestar Galactica (2005)
Battlestar Galactica (2006)
Dexter (2007)
Battlestar Galactica (2008)
Breaking Bad (2009)
2010s
Breaking Bad (2010)
Breaking Bad (2011)
The Walking Dead (2012)
The Walking Dead (2013)
The Walking Dead (2014)

vteSaturn Award for Best Television Presentation1990s
Alien Nation: Dark Horizon (1994)
Alien Nation: Millennium (1995)
Doctor Who (1996)
The Shining (1997)
Storm of the Century (1999)
2000s
Fail Safe (2000)
Jack and the Beanstalk: The Real Story (2001)
Taken (2002)
Battlestar Galactica (2003)
Farscape: The Peacekeeper Wars (2004)
Masters of Horror/The Triangle (2005)
The Librarian: Return to King Solomon's Mines (2006)
Family Guy: "Blue Harvest" (2007)
The Librarian: Curse of the Judas Chalice (2008)
Torchwood: Children of Earth (2009)
2010s
The Walking Dead (2010)
The Walking Dead (2011)
Breaking Bad (2012)
Breaking Bad (2013)
Game of Thrones (2014)
Doctor Who: "The Husbands of River Song" (2015)
11.22.63 (2016)
Twin Peaks: The Return (2017)
The Mandalorian (2019/2020)
2020s
Obi-Wan Kenobi (2021/2022)
Werewolf by Night (2022/2023)

vteScreen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series1990s
NYPD Blue (season 1/season 2) (1994)
ER (season 1/season 2) (1995)
ER (season 2/season 3) (1996)
ER (season 3/season 4) (1997)
ER (season 4/season 5) (1998)
The Sopranos (season 1) (1999)
2000s
The West Wing (season 1/season 2) (2000)
The West Wing (season 2/season 3) (2001)
Six Feet Under (season 2) (2002)
Six Feet Under (season 3) (2003)
CSI: Crime Scene Investigation (season 4/season 5) (2004)
Lost (season 1/season 2) (2005)
Grey's Anatomy (season 2/season 3) (2006)
The Sopranos (season 6, part II) (2007)
Mad Men (season 2) (2008)
Mad Men (season 3) (2009)
2010s
Boardwalk Empire (season 1) (2010)
Boardwalk Empire (season 2) (2011)
Downton Abbey (series 2) (2012)
Breaking Bad (season 5, part II) (2013)
Downton Abbey (series 4) (2014)
Downton Abbey (series 5) (2015)
Stranger Things (season 1) (2016)
This Is Us (season 1/season 2) (2017)
This Is Us (season 2/season 3) (2018)
The Crown (season 3) (2019)
2020s
The Crown (season 4) (2020)
Succession (season 3) (2021)
The White Lotus (season 2) (2022)
Succession (season 4) (2023)

vteTCA Award for Outstanding Achievement in Drama1980s
The Jewel in the Crown (1985)
Death of a Salesman (1986)
L.A. Law (season 1) (1987)
St. Elsewhere (season 6) (1988)
Lonesome Dove (1989)
1990s
Twin Peaks (season 1) (1990)
thirtysomething (season 4) (1991)
I’ll Fly Away (season 1) (1992)
I’ll Fly Away (season 2) (1993)
NYPD Blue (season 1) (1994)
My So-Called Life (season 1) (1995)
Homicide: Life on the Street (season 4) (1996)
Homicide: Life on the Street (season 5) (1997)
Homicide: Life on the Street (season 6) (1998)
The Sopranos (season 1) (1999)
2000s
The West Wing (season 1) (2000)
The Sopranos (season 3) / The West Wing (season 2) (2001)
Six Feet Under (season 1/season 2) (2002)
Boomtown (season 1) (2003)
The Sopranos (season 5) (2004)
Lost (season 1) (2005)
Lost (season 2) (2006)
The Sopranos (season 6, part II) (2007)
Mad Men (season 1) (2008)
Mad Men (season 2) (2009)
2010s
Breaking Bad (season 3) / Lost (season 6) (2010)
Mad Men (season 4) (2011)
Breaking Bad (season 4) (2012)
Game of Thrones (season 3) (2013)
The Good Wife (season 5) (2014)
The Americans (season 3) (2015)
The Americans (season 4) (2016)
The Handmaid's Tale (season 1) (2017)
The Americans (season 6) (2018)
Better Call Saul (season 4) (2019)
2020s
Succession (season 2) (2020)
The Crown (season 4) (2021)
Succession (season 3) (2022)
Succession (season 4) (2023)

vteTCA Award for Program of the Year
The Jewel in the Crown (1985)
Death of a Salesman / The Vanishing Family: Crisis in Black America (1986)
Eyes on the Prize (1987)
Dear America: Letters Home from Vietnam (1988)
Lonesome Dove (1989)
Twin Peaks (1990)
The Civil War (1991)
Northern Exposure (1992)
Barbarians at the Gate (1993)
Late Show with David Letterman (1994)
ER (1995)
Homicide: Life on the Street (1996)
EZ Streets (1997)
From the Earth to the Moon (1998)
The Sopranos (1999)
The West Wing (2000)
The Sopranos (2001)
24 (2002)
American Idol (2003)
Angels in America (2004)
Desperate Housewives (2005)
Grey’s Anatomy (2006)
Heroes (2007)
Mad Men (2008)
Battlestar Galactica (2009)
Glee (2010)
Friday Night Lights (2011)
Game of Thrones (2012)
Breaking Bad (2013)
Breaking Bad (2014)
Empire (2015)
The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story (2016)
The Handmaid's Tale (2017)
The Americans (2018)
Fleabag (2019)
Watchmen (2020)
Ted Lasso (2021)
Abbott Elementary (2022)
Succession (2023)

vteWriters Guild of America Award for Television: Dramatic Series2000s
Lost (season 1/season 2) (2005)
The Sopranos (season 6, part I) (2006)
The Wire (season 4) (2007)
Mad Men (season 2) (2008)
Mad Men (season 3) (2009)
2010s
Mad Men (season 4) (2010)
Breaking Bad (season 4) (2011)
Breaking Bad (season 5, part I) (2012)
Breaking Bad (season 5, part II) (2013)
True Detective (season 1) (2014)
Mad Men (season 7, part II) (2015)
The Americans (season 4) (2016)
The Handmaid's Tale (season 1) (2017)
The Americans (season 6) (2018)
Succession (season 2) (2019)
2020s
The Crown (season 4) (2020)
Succession (season 3) (2021)
Severance (season 1) (2022)
Succession (season 4) (2023)

vteWriters Guild of America Award for Television: Episodic Drama1960s
William Spier for "The Unhired Assassin" (1960)
Barry Trivers for "The Fault in Our Stars" (1961)
Howard A. Rodman and Kenneth M. Rosen for "Today the Man Who Kills The Ants is Coming" (1962)
Lawrence B. Marcus for "Man Out of Time" (1963)
Arnold Perl for "Who Do You Kill?" (1964)
John D. F. Black for "With a Hammer in His Hand, Lord, Lord!" (1965)
David Ellis for "No Justice for the Judge" (1966)
Harlan Ellison for "The City on the Edge of Forever" (1967)
Robert Lewin for "To Kill a Madman" (1968)
Robert Lewin for "An Elephant in a Cigar Box" (1969)
1970s
David W. Rintels for "A Continual Roar of Musketry" (1970)
Herb Bermann & Thomas Y. Drake & Jerrold Freedman & Bo May for "Par for the Course"  (1971)
Herman Miller for "King of the Mountain"  (1972)
Harlan Ellison for "Phoenix Without Ashes" (1973)
Jim Byrnes for "Thirty a Month and Found" (1974)
Stephen Kandel & Arthur Ross for "Prior Consent" (1975)
Loring Mandel for "Crossing Fox River" (1976)
Mark Rodgers for "Pressure Point" (1977)
Seth Freeman for "Prisoner" (1978)
Leon Tokatyan for "Vet" (1979)
1980s
Stephen J. Cannell for "Tenspeed and Brown Shoe" (1980)
Steven Bochco & Michael Kozoll for "Hill Street Station"  (1981)
Michael Wagner for "The World According to Freedom"  (1982)
David Milch for "Trial By Fury" (1983)
Steven Bochco & Mark Frost & Karen Hall & Jeff Lewis & David Milch & Michael Wagner for "Grace Under Pressure"  (1984)
Georgia Jeffries for "An Unusual Occurrence" / Anthony Yerkovich for "Brother's Keeper" (1985)
Debra Frank & Carl Sautter for "The Dream Sequence Always Rings Twice" / Tom Fontana & John Masius & Bruce Paltrow for "Remembrance of Things Past" (1986)
Georgia Jeffries for "Turn, Turn, Turn" / Debra Frank & Carl Sautter for "It's a Wonderful Job" (1987)
Susan Shilliday for "Therapy" / Marshall Herskovitz & Edward Zwick for "Pilot" (thirtysomething) (1988)
Karl Schaefer for "Rolling" (1989)
1990s
John Sacret Young for "Souvenirs"  (1990)
Racelle Rosett Schaefer for "Photo Opportunity"  (1991)
Henry Bromell for "Amazing Grace"  (1992)
Tom Fontana & Frank Pugliese for "The Night of the Dead Living"  (1993)
Tom Fontana & David Mills & David Simon for "Bop Gun"  (1994)
Lance Gentile for "Love's Labor Lost" (1995)
Bill Clark & Theresa Rebeck for "Girl Talk" (1996)
René Balcer & Richard Sweren for "Entrapment" (1997)
Bill Cain for "Proofs for the Existence Of God" (1998)
Jason Cahill for "Meadowlands" (1999)
2000s
Rick Cleveland and Aaron Sorkin for "In Excelsis Deo" (2000)
Tim Van Patten and Terence Winter for "Pine Barrens" (2001)
Dawn Prestwich and Nicole Yorkin for "Pilot" (The Education of Max Bickford) (2002)
Evan Katz for "Day 2: 7:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m." (2003)
Debora Cahn for "The Supremes" (2004)
Lawrence Kaplow for "Autopsy" (2005)
Mark V. Olsen and Will Scheffer for "Pilot" (Big Love) (2006)
Terence Winter for "The Second Coming" (2007)
Vince Gilligan for "Pilot" (Breaking Bad) (2008)
David Foster, Russel Friend, Garrett Lerner, and David Shore for "Broken" (2009)
2010s
Erin Levy for "The Chrysanthemum and the Sword" (2010)
Vince Gilligan for "Box Cutter" / Henry Bromell for "The Good Soldier" (2011)
Semi Chellas & Matthew Weiner for "The Other Woman" (2012)
Gennifer Hutchison for "Confessions" (2013)
Robert King & Michelle King for "The Last Call" (2014)
Vince Gilligan & Peter Gould for "Uno" (2015)
Vera Herbert for "The Trip" (2016)
Gordon Smith for "Chicanery" (2017)
Alex Gansa for "Paean to the People" (2018)
Will Tracy for "Tern Haven" (2019)
2020s
Miki Johnson for "Fire Pink" (2020)
Tony Roche and Susan Soon He Stanton for "Retired Janitors of Idaho" (2021)
Thomas Schnauz for "Plan and Execution" (2022)
Georgia Pritchett and Will Arbery for "Living+" (2023)

Complete list
1960s
1970s
1980s
1990s
2000s
2010s
2020s

vteBetter Call SaulEpisodesSeason 1
"Uno"
"Mijo"
"Nacho"
"Hero"
"Alpine Shepherd Boy"
"Five-O"
"Bingo"
"RICO"
"Pimento"
"Marco"
Season 2
"Switch"
"Cobbler"
"Amarillo"
"Gloves Off"
"Rebecca"
"Bali Ha'i"
"Inflatable"
"Fifi"
"Nailed"
"Klick"
Season 3
"Mabel"
"Witness"
"Sunk Costs"
"Sabrosito"
"Chicanery"
"Off Brand"
"Expenses"
"Slip"
"Fall"
"Lantern"
Season 4
"Smoke"
"Breathe"
"Something Beautiful"
"Talk"
"Quite a Ride"
"Piñata"
"Something Stupid"
"Coushatta"
"Wiedersehen"
"Winner"
Season 5
"Magic Man"
"50% Off"
"The Guy for This"
"Namaste"
"Dedicado a Max"
"Wexler v. Goodman"
"JMM"
"Bagman"
"Bad Choice Road"
"Something Unforgivable"
Season 6Part 1
"Wine and Roses"
"Carrot and Stick"
"Rock and Hard Place"
"Hit and Run"
"Black and Blue"
"Axe and Grind"
"Plan and Execution"
Part 2
"Point and Shoot"
"Fun and Games"
"Nippy"
"Breaking Bad"
"Waterworks"
"Saul Gone"
Characters
Jimmy McGill
Mike Ehrmantraut
Kim Wexler
Chuck McGill
Howard Hamlin
Nacho Varga
Gus Fring
Lalo Salamanca
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Breaking Bad ("Better Call Saul")
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Talking Saul
Slippin' Jimmy
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Address Unknown"

 Category

vteAMC original programmingCurrent
Dark Winds (since 2022)
Gangs of London (since 2021)
Interview with the Vampire (since 2022)
Kin (since 2021)
Mayfair Witches (since 2023)
Parish (since 2024)
Ride with Norman Reedus (since 2016)
The Terror (since 2018)
The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon (since 2023)
The Walking Dead: Dead City (since 2023)
Former1980s debuts
The Movie Masters (1989–1990)
1990s debuts
Remember WENN (1996–1998)
The Lot (1999–2001)
2000s debuts
Breaking Bad (2008–2013)
Broken Trail (2006)
Celebrity Charades (2005)
DVD TV (2002–2008)
Hustle (2006–2012)
Mad Men (2007–2015)
Movies That Shook the World (2005)
The Prisoner (2009)
Shootout (2003–2008)
2010s debuts
4th and Loud (2014)
The American West (2016)
Better Call Saul (2015–2022)
Comic Book Men (2012–2018)
Dietland (2018)
Fear the Walking Dead (2015–2023)
Feed the Beast (2016)
Freakshow (2013–2014)
Game of Arms (2014)
Geeking Out (2016)
Halt and Catch Fire (2014–2017)
Hell on Wheels (2011–2016)
Humans (2015–2018)
Into the Badlands (2015–2019)
The Killing (2011–2013)
The Little Drummer Girl (2018)
Loaded (2017)
Lodge 49 (2018–2019)
Low Winter Sun (2013)
The Making of the Mob (2015–2016)
McMafia (2018)
The Night Manager (2016)
NOS4A2 (2019–2020)
Owner's Manual (2013)
The Pitch (2012–2013)
Preacher (2016–2019)
Rubicon (2010)
Small Town Security (2012–2014)
The Son (2017–2019)
Talking Bad (2013)
Talking Dead (2011–2022)
Talking Preacher (2016–2017)
Talking Saul (2016–2022)
Talking with Chris Hardwick (2017)
TURN: Washington's Spies (2014–2017)
The Walking Dead (2010–2022)
2020s debuts
61st Street (2022)
Dispatches from Elsewhere (2020)
Firebite (2021–2022)
Kevin Can F**k Himself (2021–2022)
La Fortuna (2022)
Lucky Hank (2023)
Monsieur Spade (2024)
Moonhaven (2022)
Pantheon (2022)
Ragdoll (2022)
Slippin' Jimmy (2022)
Soulmates (2020)
Tales of the Walking Dead (2022)
That Dirty Black Bag (2022)
This Is Going to Hurt (2022)
The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live (2024)
The Walking Dead: World Beyond (2020–2021)
Upcoming
Nautilus (2024)
Orphan Black: Echoes (2024)
Snowpiercer (2024)

Authority control databases International
VIAF
National
Spain
France
BnF data
Germany
United States
Other
IdRef





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Breaking_Bad&oldid=1225370125"




Look up break bad or breaking bad in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.

Breaking Bad is an American television series.
Breaking Bad may also refer to:

Breaking Bad (franchise), the larger franchise
"Breaking Bad" (Better Call Saul), an episode of spinoff series Better Call Saul
"Pilot" (Breaking Bad), titled "Breaking Bad" on DVD and Blu-ray releases
Breaking Bad: Criminal Elements, a mobile game developed by FTX Games based on the series
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, a 2019 film sequel to the series
See also[edit]
"Breaking Brad", an episode of Loki
Better Call Saul (disambiguation)
Topics referred to by the same term

This disambiguation page lists  articles associated with the title Breaking Bad.If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Breaking_Bad_(disambiguation)&oldid=1179975025"

2019 American film by Vince Gilligan


El Camino: A Breaking Bad MoviePromotional posterDirected byVince GilliganWritten byVince GilliganBased onBreaking Badby Vince GilliganProduced by
Mark Johnson
Melissa Bernstein
Charles Newirth
Vince Gilligan
Aaron Paul
Diane Mercer
Starring
Aaron Paul
Jesse Plemons
Krysten Ritter
Charles Baker
Matt Jones
Robert Forster
Jonathan Banks
Bryan Cranston
CinematographyMarshall AdamsEdited bySkip MacdonaldMusic byDave PorterProductioncompaniesSony Pictures TelevisionGran Vía ProductionsHigh Bridge ProductionsDistributed byNetflixSony Pictures ReleasingRelease date
October 11, 2019 (2019-10-11)
Running time122 minutes[1]CountryUnited StatesLanguageEnglishBudget>$6 million[2]Box office>$40,000[3]
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (or simply El Camino) is a 2019 American neo-Western crime thriller film. Part of the Breaking Bad franchise, it serves as a sequel and epilogue to the television series Breaking Bad. It continues the story of Jesse Pinkman, who partnered with former teacher Walter White throughout the series to build a crystal meth empire based in Albuquerque. Series creator Vince Gilligan wrote, directed, and produced El Camino; Aaron Paul reprised his role as Jesse Pinkman. Several Breaking Bad actors also reprised their roles, including Jesse Plemons, Krysten Ritter, Charles Baker, Matt Jones, Robert Forster, Jonathan Banks, and Bryan Cranston. Forster died on the day of El Camino's release, making the film one of his final on-screen appearances.
Gilligan began considering the story of El Camino while writing Breaking Bad's series finale. He approached Paul with the idea for the film in 2017, near the tenth anniversary of the show's premiere, and completed the script several months later. Principal photography began in secret in New Mexico in November 2018, lasting nearly 50 days. The project remained unconfirmed until Netflix released a trailer on August 24, 2019.
El Camino received a digital release on Netflix and a limited theatrical run on October 11, 2019, with an AMC television premiere on February 16, 2020. It drew positive reviews from critics and garnered several award nominations, winning Best Movie Made for Television at the Critics' Choice Television Awards and Best Motion Picture Made for Television at the Satellite Awards. El Camino additionally gained four nominations at the Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards for Outstanding Television Movie and other technical categories.


Plot[edit]
In a flashback to shortly before they leave Walter White's meth business,[N 1] Jesse Pinkman asks Mike Ehrmantraut where he would go to start over. Mike says if he were younger, he would go to Alaska, which Jesse finds appealing. Jesse expresses the desire to make amends for past wrongdoing, but Mike cautions that starting over would make that impossible.
In the present, Jesse flees the Brotherhood compound in Todd Alquist's El Camino.[N 2] He goes to the Albuquerque home of Skinny Pete and Badger, who hide the car and give Jesse a place to sleep. The next morning, Jesse calls Old Joe to dispose of the El Camino, but Joe leaves after discovering its LoJack. Pete devises a plan to make it appear Jesse fled after trading the El Camino for Pete's Ford Thunderbird. Pete and Badger give Jesse the money Walter gave them,[N 2] and Badger drives south in the Thunderbird so it appears Jesse is headed to Mexico. Pete stays with the El Camino and waits for the police to respond to the LoJack. Jesse departs in Badger's Pontiac Fiero. He learns from the radio news of Walter's fatal poisoning of a woman,[N 3] and of Walter's death.[N 2]
In a flashback to Jesse's captivity,[N 4] Todd takes Jesse to Todd's apartment to help dispose of his cleaning lady, whom he killed after she discovered his hidden money. They sidestep Lou Schanzer, Todd's busybody neighbor, and bury the corpse in the Painted Desert. Jesse briefly holds the pistol Todd left unsecured, but Todd talks him into returning it.
In the present, Jesse sneaks into Todd's apartment and searches for Todd's money. He finds the new hiding place, but policemen Neil Kandy and Casey enter and begin searching. Jesse hides but holds Casey at gunpoint after Casey finds him. Neil disarms Jesse, who realizes they are not police but thugs also looking for Todd's money. To save himself, Jesse reveals he found the cash. Lou reports finding an old note from Todd, and Casey distracts him by feigning interest. Neil and Jesse bargain over the cash and Neil lets Jesse take a third. As they depart, Jesse recognizes Neil as the welder who built the tether that held him while he was forced to cook meth for the Brotherhood.
Jesse finds Ed Galbraith, the "disappearer", who wants US$125,000 to aid Jesse, plus $125,000 for the previous occasion when Jesse hired him but failed to commit.[N 5] Jesse is $1,800 short and Ed refuses to help. Knowing they are being surveilled, Jesse calls his parents and feigns willingness to surrender. After his parents and the police depart, Jesse sneaks into the Pinkman home and takes two pistols from his father's safe, a Colt Woodsman and an Iver Johnson Hammerless.[9][10]
Jesse drives to Neil's shop, where Neil, Casey, and three friends celebrate with escorts and cocaine. After the escorts leave, he asks for $1,800, and Neil refuses. Seeing the Woodsman in Jesse's waistband, Neil challenges Jesse to a duel for his share of the cash. Jesse agrees, and when Neil reaches for his gun, Jesse shoots him with the Hammerless, which was concealed in his jacket pocket. Casey fires at Jesse, but Jesse kills him with Neil's gun. Jesse collects the driver's licenses of the remaining men and lets them leave after threatening to return and kill them if they tell the police. He recovers Neil's cash and departs after setting an explosion to cover his tracks.
In a flashback,[N 6] Walter and Jesse have breakfast after a multi-day meth cook. Estimating they will make more than $1 million, Walter laments having waited his entire life to do something special and calls Jesse lucky since he will not have to wait.
In the present, Ed drops Jesse off at a car parked near Haines, Alaska. Jesse gives Ed a letter for Brock Cantillo and acknowledges he does not want to say goodbye to anyone else. Driving off, Jesse has a flashback to his time with Jane Margolis.[N 7] He tells her he admires what she said about going wherever the universe takes her, but she dismisses it as metaphorical and encourages him to make his own decisions. Jesse drives on, smiling at the prospect of a new life.

Cast[edit]
Further information: List of characters in the Breaking Bad franchise
Jesse Plemons, Krysten Ritter, and Jonathan Banks reprised their roles as Todd Alquist, Jane Margolis, and Mike Ehrmantraut, respectively.
Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman, a former meth cook who once partnered with Walter White
Jesse Plemons as Todd Alquist, one of Jesse's captors and a member of the neo-Nazi gang that forces Jesse to cook meth, who appears in flashbacks before his death
Krysten Ritter as Jane Margolis, Jesse's deceased girlfriend, who appears in a flashback
Charles Baker as Skinny Pete, Jesse's friend
Matt Jones as Brandon "Badger" Mayhew, Jesse's friend
Robert Forster as Ed Galbraith, a vacuum cleaner store owner who relocates people and gives them new identities
Jonathan Banks as Mike Ehrmantraut, former business partner of Jesse and Walter, who appears in a flashback
Bryan Cranston as Walter White, meth kingpin, and Jesse's deceased former partner and high school chemistry teacher, who appears in a flashback
Scott Shepherd as Casey, Neil's associate
Scott MacArthur as Neil Kandy, a welder involved in Jesse's captivity
Tom Bower as Lou Schanzer, Todd's nosy neighbor
Kevin Rankin as Kenny, one of Jesse's captors
Larry Hankin as Old Joe, the owner of a local junkyard who previously helped Jesse and Walter with several activities connected to their meth business
Tess Harper as Diane Pinkman, Jesse's mother who has a strained relationship with her son
Michael Bofshever as Adam Pinkman, Jesse's father who has a strained relationship with his son
Marla Gibbs as Jean, an Albuquerque resident seen shopping at Best Quality Vacuum
Brendan Sexton III as Kyle, an employee at Kandy Welding Co.
Johnny Ortiz as Busboy, who appears in a flashback serving Jesse and Walter's table at Owl Café
David Mattey as Clarence / Man Mountain, who appears dropping off the women at Kandy Welding Co.
Themes and style[edit]
While El Camino's plot focuses on Jesse Pinkman escaping to Alaska, writer and director Vince Gilligan stated that thematically, the film centers on Jesse's transformation from a boy to a man. As Jesse spent the entirety of Breaking Bad as Walter White's partner, El Camino in contrast shows Jesse coming to terms with his past and making his own decisions, free of White's influence.[12] This theme is prevalent in the flashbacks that bookend El Camino, with Mike Ehrmantraut at the beginning, and Walter White and Jane Margolis at the end. Alan Sepinwall of Rolling Stone detailed that while these scenes serve as a reminder of who Jesse used to be and all that he lost, "all three flashbacks are also about the way that Jesse has been forced by tragic circumstance to grow up and think more about his place in the universe and the impact he has on others. And they're about setting him on the road where Ed [Galbraith] leaves him at the film's conclusion".[7] Aaron Paul described his character Jesse as someone who went through "hell and back multiple times" and is still "paying for those sins", but Donna Bowman of The A.V. Club remarked that in freeing his ambitions from Walter White's manipulations, Jesse found his own redemption and avoided his mentor's fate, finally giving himself a chance for a future.[13][14]
The opening flashback with Jesse and Mike also sets the theme of Jesse wanting to start over while also making things right with his past. Though Mike warned that starting over would make it impossible to make amends, Sepinwall noted that Jesse was able to repay several emotional debts from the series with rectifying gestures throughout the film: giving a proper goodbye to his friends Badger and Skinny Pete, apologizing to his parents one last time, getting revenge against Neil Kandy and Casey, paying back his literal debt to Ed Galbraith, and sending his farewell letter of apology to Brock Cantillo.[7] Placing his own analysis on Jesse's final duel with Neil, Gilligan interpreted the scene as more than just Jesse getting the cash he needed for his escape, but also as a way of "exorcising demons" that plagued him from the events of the series. Both Gilligan and Paul speculated that Jesse would still be haunted by these demons, even in his new life in Alaska, but had at least achieved some form of vengeance for his past by ridding the world of an evil person.[12][13]
Breaking Bad was often categorized as a contemporary Western; this theme is also present in El Camino.[15][16] Gilligan expressed his admiration for director Sergio Leone and his love for the Western genre – he originally wanted to film Breaking Bad in the CinemaScope format Leone used for the Dollars Trilogy and got his wish in El Camino.[2][17] Critics noted the duel between Jesse and Neil as being directly in the style of Western films.[18][19] Gilligan referenced The Good, the Bad and the Ugly and other classic gunfights to sequence the scene with comparable camera coverage techniques, likewise composer Dave Porter used Western elements in the scene's score.[20][21] Ben Travers of IndieWire traced the film's Western influences to its "sweeping landscapes, lone survivor, and final stand-off", while Matt Zoller Seitz of Vulture called El Camino's title "unabashedly Western-tinged" and cited the final shot's lack of overt sentimentality as being true to the spirit of classic Westerns.[22][23]

Production[edit]
Conception[edit]
Vince Gilligan, the creator and showrunner of Breaking Bad, had the idea for El Camino while writing the series finale "Felina". He asked himself what happened to Jesse Pinkman after the events of the episode when Jesse escaped from the neo-Nazis' compound after being rescued by Walter White.[17] Though he kept Jesse's fate ambiguous in the finale's script, Gilligan offered two possibilities during interviews: a more realistic one where the police caught Jesse a few miles from the compound, and a second, more optimistic one where he got away but still had to cope with the terrible things he witnessed throughout the series.[24][25]
In the intervening years, Gilligan toyed with both approaches. One early idea involved Jesse hiding close to the Canadian border, getting lured back into crime to help a young woman in the town. This version ended with Jesse in a jail cell in the concluding scene, imprisoned yet at peace for the first time. Gilligan's girlfriend Holly Rice advised against this ending, saying fans would not appreciate seeing Jesse incarcerated after all he had been through.[26][27] He received the same feedback when separately pitching ideas for the film with the writing staff of Better Call Saul, a Breaking Bad spin-off also created by Gilligan that still aired at the time. The staff featured many writers from the original series; Gilligan originally served as co-showrunner during the early seasons before leaving the writers room to focus on other projects.[17][28] They also objected to this ending because they planned on using a similar idea for the series finale of Better Call Saul, which was still to come many years later, and felt this conclusion fit their story better than Jesse's.[29] After the negative reception to the concept of Jesse getting caught by authorities, Gilligan subsequently went with the storyline of Jesse escaping to Alaska.[26]

Development[edit]
El Camino follows Jesse Pinkman, portrayed by Aaron Paul, after the events of Breaking Bad.
The original idea for continuing Jesse Pinkman's story began as a short film or "mini-episode" of about 15 to 20 minutes in length. Realizing a short would not be cost-effective, Gilligan opted to make a full-length feature film.[17] He initially thought about titling the project '63, referring to its unofficial status as the 63rd episode of Breaking Bad.[12] However, during the meeting where Gilligan pitched story ideas with the Better Call Saul staff, series executive producer Thomas Schnauz advised him to change this proposed title.[17][12] Schnauz, who served as an executive producer and a writer on both television series, reasoned to Gilligan that Breaking Bad essentially focused on Walter White's story, whereas the film and its title should be unique to reflect that they centered on Jesse Pinkman.[30][12] Gilligan agreed and eventually settled on the title El Camino, referring to the car Jesse drives away with in "Felina".[12]
Near the tenth anniversary of Breaking Bad's premiere, Gilligan started sharing the idea with former cast and crew members as a means to celebrate the milestone.[2] Aaron Paul, who portrayed Jesse in the series, affirmed that around this time, he received a phone call from Gilligan, who hinted at a return for his character.[31][32] Paul initially believed this meant a cameo on Better Call Saul, which was a prequel to Breaking Bad. Gilligan then revealed his intentions to continue Jesse's story after the events of the series, much to Paul's excitement.[33] Though he thought Breaking Bad concluded satisfyingly, Paul still felt attached to the character of Jesse Pinkman; fans regularly asked him of Jesse's whereabouts, while he occasionally wondered about Jesse's fate himself.[34] At the end of the conversation, Paul showed eagerness to be involved with any idea Gilligan had for a Breaking Bad continuation.[31]
Gilligan presented Paul with a completed screenplay seven months after proposing his idea.[35] Paul spent three hours in Gilligan's office going over the script and almost instantly felt able to pick up on Jesse's mindset and emotional beats.[34][36] Following his initial read-through, Paul was so impressed that he felt speechless, and likened this initial reaction as being similar to the one after his first reading of "Felina".[34][37] Once he was finished with the screenplay, Paul continued to express happiness and excitement for the film, which he called a "love letter" to Jesse and Breaking Bad's fans, and lauded Gilligan for approaching the script with caution and care.[31][37]
Though Gilligan had been involved with feature-length films before, El Camino would be the first he directed and produced.[2] While he considered the concept of a sequel film for an extended period after Breaking Bad's conclusion, Gilligan stated he likely would not have been able to make it had Better Call Saul been unsuccessful.[38] When Gilligan made his initial film pitch to Sony Pictures Television, the studio behind both Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, the executives in the room quickly agreed to come on board. With his script in hand, Gilligan then selectively shopped the film to a few potential distributors, settling on Netflix and AMC due to their history with the show. Gilligan intended for El Camino to have a theatrical release, which Netflix previously provided for some of Breaking Bad's season premieres. El Camino's unspecified budget surpassed the $6 million budget per episode by the end of the show's final season.[2]

Writing[edit]
Vince Gilligan, the creator and showrunner of Breaking Bad, wrote and directed El Camino.
Unlike most of his work from The X-Files, Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, where he collaborated with a writers room to develop his scripts and meet his deadlines, Gilligan wrote the film's screenplay alone until he felt it was ready to present. Regarding El Camino as a coda to Breaking Bad, Gilligan believed the film would primarily appeal to fans and would not be as enjoyable to those who had not watched the series. This influenced his decision to write it as a direct continuation rather than inserting exposition scenes to try to attract new viewers.[2] He felt El Camino could be seen independently from both Breaking Bad and its spinoff Better Call Saul, similarly to how the two series could be seen independently from one another. However, he also believed the three works existed together in a larger framework, and that viewers needed to watch all of them together to receive the full experience.[17]
When thinking of which Breaking Bad characters to use for El Camino, Gilligan considered bringing back Skyler White, Walter Jr., Hank and Marie Schrader and Gus Fring, but could not find a way to incorporate them into Jesse's story. Saul Goodman was also considered, but Gilligan desisted as he was unaware of the potential plans Peter Gould and the Better Call Saul writers could have for the character in that series.[27] An early concept included bringing back Uncle Jack as a ghost that goaded Jesse throughout his journey, but Gilligan discarded this idea as too dreary as he felt Jesse already suffered enough.[17] Of the characters he ended up using, Gilligan felt most excited to bring back the sociopathic Todd Alquist, as he maintained fascination with the character and wished he could have been further explored on the series.[12] Jesse Plemons, who portrayed Todd, expressed surprise at his deceased character's sizable role upon first reading the script, and described his portion of the film as Todd, free from supervision of his elders, having his best day.[39][40] He also likened his scenes with Jesse to a dark buddy comedy.[39]
With Todd and the rest of the neo-Nazi gang canonically dead at the end of "Felina", Gilligan felt the film needed a new villain to introduce conflict for Jesse in the present storyline. For this reason, Gilligan created the character Neil Kandy, the welder who Gilligan labeled "Nazi-adjacent" due to his prior business dealings with the gang. He also described Neil as being more sociopathic than Todd, saying it would take someone of Neil's caliber to create the dog run that physically tethered Jesse without asking too many questions or even caring about Jesse's condition. Gilligan worried about introducing a new character not seen in Breaking Bad, but also called it "Drama 101" to include Neil as he gave Jesse a villain he could prevail against and provided the film with more visceral flair.[17]

Peter Gould and the Better Call Saul writing staff regularly consulted Gilligan as he developed the screenplay.
Gilligan would keep the Better Call Saul writers room involved throughout El Camino's production, including during the writing process.[41] This was to not only ensure the two projects' continuity did not interfere with one another but to also take in suggestions to improve his screenplay. Upon completion of his first draft, Gilligan immediately sought the advice of Gould, who developed Better Call Saul with Gilligan and became its sole showrunner after Gilligan reduced his own role in the series.[42][28] The decision to bring Jane Margolis into the story resulted from this consultation, as the initial script did not include the character. After Gould read the first draft, he advised that Jane could appear in the ending, "where it would mean the most to the audience". Gilligan thought about the suggestion for a couple of weeks and eventually agreed. He incorporated the idea into his script, and Jane ultimately delivered the final lines of El Camino.[12][43] Krysten Ritter, who reprised the role in the film, called the ending with her character "so beautiful" as it "sent Jesse off into the sunset with Jane riding shotgun ... He was going to be okay, and she was there with him".[44]
One of the biggest elements removed in later drafts was the very first thing Gilligan wrote for the script: the contents of Jesse's letter to Brock.[45] Gilligan planned on having it read in voice-over while Jesse drove through Alaska in the final scene; Paul described it as "the most honest, beautiful, caring letter imaginable – really, just pouring his heart out and saying he's sorry".[46] While the Better Call Saul staff praised the letter's contents, Gould and several others felt it would be better left to the audience's imagination to determine what Jesse wrote. Gilligan subsequently decided not to use the letter to conclude Jesse's story, and the voice-over would never end up being recorded.[41][47] Paul agreed with Gilligan's decision but mentioned he felt "crushed" it did not appear in the final cut.[26] He retained possession of the letter after filming finished and shared his hopes that the letter's contents will eventually be revealed to the public.[47][46]
Gilligan wrote the scene of Walter and Jesse sitting in the diner in a light-hearted tone, with the intention of providing one last chance to see the two characters together as a final treat for the fans. Producer Melissa Bernstein suggested adding a bit more poignancy to the scene to let it resonate further with the audience.[11] Gilligan left most of the scene from the original script intact, but he and Bernstein came up with the line "You're really lucky, you know that? That you didn't have to wait your whole life to do something special", tying the scene to El Camino's theme of Jesse finally taking control of his life.[12]

Filming[edit]
Under the working title Greenbrier, a majority of the filming occurred in Albuquerque, New Mexico from November 2018 to February 2019, with the overall shoot lasting 50 days.[48][49][2] El Camino had a more relaxed shooting pace than Breaking Bad, with only one-and-a-half to three pages of script filmed per day as opposed to six to eight.[2] This less-pressured schedule gave the actors more opportunities to improvise on set while providing the crew members additional time to film a wider variety of shots and further camera coverage.[50][51] Gilligan felt the slower pace allowed him to reflect and feel a greater sense of finality for his creation whilst filming.[17]
Despite not portraying their characters since the show's ending several years prior, cast members felt at ease reprising their former roles.[52][53] Paul filmed his scenes without any rehearsals, as he felt he could easily access Jesse's emotions the same way he could on the series.[34] He likened his reprisal as Jesse to zipping on an old friend.[54] El Camino also used many of the crew members who held their roles since the pilot of Breaking Bad, as several carried over to Better Call Saul when the show concluded.[32] The first footage filmed for El Camino was for the scene where Jesse shows up at Badger and Skinny Pete's house and collapses into bed; Paul compared his first day of shooting with Gilligan, Matt Jones, Charles Baker and the show's former crew members to a family reunion.[55][56]
During principal photography, production nearly decided to forgo filming the shot of Jesse picking up a beetle outside of Neil Kandy's office,[N 8] citing scheduling constraints. Paul remained adamant in capturing the moment, citing it as a key insight into Jesse's frame of mind. The crew relented and filmed the scene in one take.[47]

Cinematography[edit]
El Camino used a 2.39 widescreen aspect ratio on the Arri Alexa 65 camera to capture the work in a cinematic manner.[2] Gilligan and cinematographer Marshall Adams specifically chose the Alexa 65 for its quality in low-light filming, which the film heavily featured. Using this camera also meant El Camino would be shot digitally, as opposed to Breaking Bad which shot on 35 mm film.[57] Production designer Judy Rhee noted that Gilligan took advantage of his lens and wider aspect ratio to create a more visually luxurious experience than the series, letting the wide vista shots help meet El Camino's plot beats rather than employing more economic options commonly used for television.[58] Adams agreed with this opinion, citing as an example the vast and empty space of the Painted Desert underscoring Jesse's lonely and hopeless state in Todd's captivity.[59]
Gilligan wanted El Camino's cinematography to maintain the naturalistic look used on Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul while also expanding it. Adams specified this as the "realistic, practical-driven looks for night exteriors and low-light interiors that embraced all the colors and looks of Albuquerque" that he used on Better Call Saul.[57] By combining the Alexa 65 with Arri Prime DNA lenses, Adams could capture low-light efficiently, control depth of field, and also maintain color contrast and balance.[60][57] Adams graded El Camino's color palette with DaVinci Resolve; he did not let Breaking Bad dictate which colors he used and opted to make a palette specific to the film. To help receive dailies, production used FotoKem, who did the same work on both Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul. The crew delivered footage with requested color changes to on-site FotoKem members, who then applied the changes to get the dailies out fairly quickly for Adams' review.[60]
Adams saw El Camino as a way to pay homage to original Breaking Bad cinematographer Michael Slovis.[61] Though Adams took over as director of photography during the third season of Better Call Saul, he previously filmed pick-ups with Slovis during the end of Breaking Bad's fourth season and served as cinematographer during the show's fifth season premiere.[57][59] For El Camino, Adams took great lengths to match Slovis' lensing from the series while modifying it for the film's digital format and larger aspect ratio.[61][59] He specified the opening of Jesse driving out of the compound as one scene he updated using this approach, likening it to a "direct cut" from Jesse's last appearance in Breaking Bad's finale. Adams applied the same principle for other scenes which used locations from the series, such as the compound and the vacuum store.[59]
To distinguish the flashback scenes from the ones set in the present, Gilligan decided against using different color saturation. He instead chose to have flashbacks filmed in a "handheld" look while having the present-day scenes more anchored and locked down. The fact that much of Breaking Bad used handheld filming inspired this decision.[59] With the Alexa 65 camera too large to carry while filming, Gilligan achieved the "wiggling" effect by placing the camera on top of a truck airbag, which could be inflated and deflated easily between two plastic plates.[60]

Set design[edit]
Filming primarily occurred at Albuquerque Studios, where both Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul were shot, along with other locations throughout the city.[62][57] Wireless microphones would be planted throughout the sets and on the actors to record natural ambient noise and dialogue while shooting, as Gilligan preferred using organic sounds over applying ADR during post-production.[63]
Notable new sets built in the studio included Todd's apartment and the welding shop where Jesse's final confrontation with Neil Kandy and Casey took place. For the first, Rhee, who worked as the production designer on Better Call Saul's fourth season, arranged the set to reflect the duality of Todd's character. The initial living room seemed sunny, meticulous, and clean, reflective of Todd's exterior "Boy Scout" personality, and appeared decorated with a childlike Easter egg palette to give a sense of his arrested development. However, the set's palette became darker going further into his bedroom, indicative of Todd's sociopathic tendencies.[58] Plemons likened the apartment set to looking inside Todd's brain, describing absolute chaos beneath the apparent order on the surface.[64] Rhee also designed the dimensions of the apartment set to fit El Camino's aspect ratio when shooting overhead. In doing this, Gilligan could create the shot of Jesse searching for Todd's money in several different rooms simultaneously.[65] For the welding shop, Rhee wanted to maintain the accuracy of how a welding business appeared and match its exterior location, but also designed the set for the scene's stunt choreography and necessary camera blocking. Rhee incorporated the glass office in the back of the set to include breakage during the climax and enhance the scene's action beats.[58]
Several Breaking Bad locations were reused for El Camino, such as the Pinkman residence, the strip mall that contained Saul Goodman's office, and Ed Galbraith's vacuum repair shop.[66] The original vacuum store had sold and become a furniture store since the series ended, so production had to recreate the set from scratch and use a special buyer to locate identical props from flea markets and salvage areas.[58] Having a restored vacuum repair store set provided an added convenience for the fifth season premiere of Better Call Saul, which aired several months later. Initially, the episode included Ed Galbraith simply as a voice-over, as the episode's budget could not cover the cost of flying actor Robert Forster to Albuquerque and rebuilding the vacuum shop set. However, Bernstein recognized that both Forster and the rebuilt set would be available as part of El Camino. She then arranged for Gilligan to shoot the Better Call Saul scene with Forster in person during the film's production, months before filming began for any other episodes.[67]
One major Breaking Bad location that had to be rebuilt primarily on stage was the compound that held Jesse prisoner, as many of the original structures had been torn down. The new set recreated the interior of Jesse's cage for the initial scenes of Jesse in captivity and seeing Todd through the steel grate. Filming for the subsequent exterior sequence of Todd letting Jesse out of his confinement happened on location; production found an existing Quonset hut in downtown Albuquerque and built a slightly smaller scale cage next to it in order to match the original site from the series.[65] For the rebuilt compound laboratory, the set reused a majority of the original props, notably the cooking vessel Walter White touched shortly before he died in Breaking Bad's final scene. Despite resulting in a continuity error, Gilligan said he did not have the heart to clean Walt's bloody handprint from the prop and instead left it in as an intentional Easter egg for fans.[68]

Exterior locations[edit]
In addition to Albuquerque, filming locations included the Painted Desert in Arizona (left) and around the Grand Tetons in Wyoming (right).
The enhanced budget and filming schedule provided Gilligan a chance to capture scenes outside of New Mexico, something he wanted but could not do during Breaking Bad.[2] One such location included the Painted Desert in Arizona, where filming occurred for the scene of Jesse and Todd burying Todd's housekeeper.[12] Gilligan had the idea of shooting in the region after multiple helicopter trips between California and Albuquerque, noting the landscape for its natural beauty. As backroad travel in the Painted Desert required a permit, Gilligan received special permission from the Navajo Nation for filming.[27] Paul and Plemons reached the Painted Desert set by a helicopter flown by Gilligan himself, who was a licensed pilot.[69] The scene where Todd sings "Sharing the Night Together" in his El Camino was also shot in the area; Gilligan noted that Plemons improvised the gesture Todd gives to the truck driver.[27] Gilligan later referred to his time filming in the Painted Desert as the single best day of directing in his career.[70]
Another sequence filmed outside of Albuquerque was the concluding scene of Jesse driving towards his new life in Haines, Alaska. While Gilligan wanted to use the Haines Highway to shoot on location, production found that option expensive and instead used a similar setting outside of Jackson, Wyoming. During the day of filming, the crew took advantage of low cloud to naturally hide the Grand Tetons in the background; this allowed them to avoid using digital technology to remove the landmark in post-production.[71] For the preceding scene of Jesse making his final exchanges with Ed Galbraith in the parking lot outside of Haines, filming occurred at the Sandia Crest, a ridgeline at the high point of the Sandia Mountains which overlooks Albuquerque.[72]

Secrecy[edit]


"I've heard so many different things about it, but I am excited about the Breaking Bad movie ... I find it hard to believe you don’t know it was shot. They did it. You know what I mean? How is that a secret? But it is. They've done an amazing job of keeping it a secret."


Bob Odenkirk, star of Breaking Bad spin-off Better Call Saul, speaking on El Camino days before its announcement.[73]

El Camino was held in great secrecy from the pre-production stages. Certain cast members were approached for the film without knowing it was for a Breaking Bad continuation, and some kept that fact secret from their families when production began.[74][50] The producers were very protective of the script during this period; cast and crew members needed to be physically present in front of them in order to read the one copy that was kept under lock and key.[75][76] Only near the start of shooting did rumors float that a Breaking Bad film began development, with Paul returning as Jesse.[77][78] Bryan Cranston, who starred as Walter White on the series, confirmed the project in an interview but said he had not seen a script, although he showed interest in participating if Gilligan called for it.[79]

Bryan Cranston's cameo as Walter White was filmed in absolute secrecy during his two-day break from the Broadway play Network.
Cranston would ultimately end up appearing in El Camino, having flown to Albuquerque in a private jet to shoot his scenes within the span of 36 hours.[11] At the time he starred in the Broadway production Network, a role for which he eventually won the Tony Award for Best Leading Actor, but used a two-day break in January for filming.[80][81] As Cranston had grown his hair out since the series ended, the makeup team used a bald cap and fake moustache to help him achieve the appearance of Walter White, with additional visual effects added during post-production to perfect his look.[82][83] Filming for the diner scene occurred first, with the set containing only crew members and their families serving as extras in order to keep the shoot confidential.[80] Despite the enclosed filming location, numerous locals spotted the show's iconic RV in the parking lot of the diner, but the crew used the excuse that they were shooting a commercial for a Breaking Bad tour to deflect attention.[12] Cranston shot the hallway scene the next day then immediately returned to the airport, arriving in New York in time to perform that same evening.[80][83] To prevent paparazzi photos, Cranston heavily disguised himself when escorted from and throughout the set.[80] When filming completed for the day, Cranston and Paul were told to avoid seeing each other.[56]
Similar measures were taken to ensure that news of filming did not reach the locals, with cast and crew under tight restrictions about what they could say about the project.[2] Cast members wore large cloaks to disguise their identities when heading to the set or when shooting outside in public places, and each of their characters were given code names.[84][85][86] When off the set, the cast could not see one another, and when recognized they would lie that they were working on the film.[56][87][88] By the time the media began making a connection between Greenbrier and Breaking Bad, filming had mostly been completed.[31] After news broke that the film would be a Breaking Bad sequel, representatives for AMC, Netflix, and Sony Pictures TV all declined to comment regarding the project's existence.[89] Paul remained coy about its status, claiming in an interview that he had not heard anything regarding a Breaking Bad movie even though filming had wrapped a month earlier.[90]
Filming of Better Call Saul's fifth season took place shortly after El Camino finished shooting to take advantage of the assembled crew. As such, cast members of Better Call Saul became aware of the film but swore to secrecy on the project.[91] Days before El Camino's announcement, Bob Odenkirk, who starred as Saul Goodman on Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, teased that the film was already completed and that the producers had done "an amazing job of keeping it a secret".[73]

Editing[edit]
Editor Skip Macdonald, who worked on Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, stated that Gilligan receiving more leeway in capturing the shots that he wanted during filming resulted in more interesting pieces and design shots during the editing process. Macdonald also felt the elongated production schedule provided him more time to work on the individual scenes and the film's overall flow, and described maintaining rhythm and pacing without the use of commercial breaks as one of the biggest differences between his work on the film and the two television series.[20][92] Gilligan waited until filming completed before entering the cutting room to provide feedback; his initial viewing of Macdonald's rough cut was his first time seeing any production footage edited together.[51]
El Camino's rough cut had an original runtime of three hours, with an estimated 30 percent of footage left out of the finished film.[93] MacDonald mentioned the necessity of excising scenes to sustain audience interest while also preventing the film from overextending its runtime.[92] One story development removed during post-production involved Jesse getting shot in the side during his final showdown with Neil and Casey.[17] This would have been followed by Ed Galbraith finding a wounded Jesse at the vacuum store the following morning, the latter subsequently opening his car's trunk to reveal the cash he acquired to fulfill his end of the bargain.[94] While Paul asked to keep this sequence in the final cut, Gilligan felt it provided little payoff for the viewers and chose to remove it to let the film reach its conclusion quicker.[95][72] Other scenes shortened for runtime included Jesse further relaxing in his hotel room before meeting with Walter White and an extended sequence of Jesse and Jane during their road trip.[96][97] Gilligan confirmed the deleted and extended scenes would be available as bonus features for El Camino's home video release.[17]

Music[edit]
Score[edit]


"The Breaking Bad [score] is, at times, very, very spare and I think the El Camino score remains true to that, but there is complexity and a depth to the music that is fuller and greater in order to fill more sonic space in a theater. That was something we were definitely after."


Dave Porter, El Camino composer.[98]

To arrange El Camino's score, production retained the use of composer Dave Porter, who created all of the original music for Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul.[98][99] Arriving later into the production process, Porter estimated spending six to eight weeks composing the score, a much longer timetable compared to the three to four days per episode for the two series.[100][101] Given the lengthier production schedule, Gilligan appeared more frequently in the studio to listen to Porter's score and exchange ideas, something he had never done during Breaking Bad.[76] Porter, in turn, felt he had more resources to add nuance to El Camino's music and worked with Gilligan to achieve a cinematic sound which could also establish its own identity.[102]
Porter approached the film sequentially when composing the score, a method he described as unique to his usual process.[103] He arranged the music in the beginning of the film to resemble that of an episode of Breaking Bad before gradually sounding unique to Jesse.[104] Similar to his work on both series, his score used a mix of electronic sounds and live instrumentation.[21] When noting the biggest differences between scoring Breaking Bad and El Camino, Porter mentioned that while the series shifted between multiple interwoven storylines, the film focused on a singular arc – the trials of Jesse, who he considered the "moral thread" of the series.[103][104] This more linear storytelling presented Porter the opportunity to further explore Jesse's state of mind and experiment with his sound.[104] He described El Camino's contents and resulting score as more "cerebral" and "psychological", rather than relying on "fast-paced adrenaline".[102]
When preparing his score, Porter rewatched the series in order to select musical cues he could revisit for El Camino. Many of the returning characters and locations received updated themes; Porter cited the scenes with Ed Galbraith and the compound as examples. However, to differentiate the flashback scenes from the scenes set in the present, Porter tried to replicate the less cinematic sounds from the original series as closely as possible. He described his main goal in designing the film's sound as wanting to link back to the score used in the series, but in a manner that it would not feel jarring or out of place.[102] For this reason, Porter chose not to make any musical references to the original Breaking Bad theme song; he felt it represented Walter White's journey and did not fit in a story primarily about Jesse.[105]
Mondo issued an official soundtrack on October 14, 2020, nearly a full year after the film's release. The 26-track double-LP featured Porter's score and many of El Camino's licensed tracks.[106]

Licensed tracks[edit]
Licensed tracks were used sparingly in El Camino.[98] Two prominent in the final cut included "Sharing the Night Together" by Dr. Hook & the Medicine Show, which Todd sings in the car during his and Jesse's road trip, and "Static on the Radio" by Jim White, which ran over the end credits.[107]
Other licensed tracks include:[108]

"I'd Really Love to See You Tonight" by England Dan & John Ford Coley
"Spikey" by Red Snapper
"Curzon" by Demdike Stare
"Kountry Gentleman" by Family Force 5
"Call Me the Breeze" by Lynyrd Skynyrd
"To Sir with Love" by Lulu
"A Little Bit of Soap" by The Jarmels
"If I Didn't Have a Dime" by Ron Moody and the Centaurs
Marketing[edit]
Netflix officially announced El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie on August 24, 2019, unveiling the title, description, poster, logo, teaser trailer, and the October 11, 2019, release date for the film.[109] Days prior, Netflix accidentally listed the film on its website, which users quickly noticed before it got pulled.[110] Due to the secrecy of the project, fans and critics alike were taken aback by the sudden announcement, as well as by learning that the release date would come sooner than expected.[111][112][113]

Trailers[edit]
The first teaser released during El Camino's announcement featured a scene where the DEA interrogated Skinny Pete on Jesse Pinkman's whereabouts. Charles Baker reprised the role in the public's first glimpse of the film.[113] Though the scene was not used in the final cut, some critics noted after the premiere of its significance in El Camino's chronology, speculating that it likely took place shortly after Jesse and Skinny Pete parted ways.[7][114] Baker later revealed the original script did not include the teaser trailer's scene.[115]
Netflix released its first trailer on September 10, 2019, which solely consisted of Breaking Bad clips set to a cover of "Enchanted"[N 9] by Chloe x Halle.[117] A second teaser, which featured Jesse sitting in the El Camino and listening to news reports of the prior events of the series on the radio, debuted during the 71st Primetime Emmy Awards ceremony on September 22, 2019.[118] A full trailer premiered on September 24, 2019, which gave viewers their first full look of clips from El Camino accompanied by the song "Black Water" by Reuben and the Dark.[119][120]
Before El Camino's premiere, Netflix released two more promotional videos that used new footage from the film or the set: a teaser clip of Old Joe speaking with Jesse on the phone and a two-minute behind-the-scenes featurette.[121][122] Netflix later released an extended 13-minute behind-the-scenes featurette titled The Road to El Camino on October 29, 2019.[123]

The Countdown to El Camino[edit]
Before the release of El Camino, the Twitter accounts of Breaking Bad and Samsung US shared a countdown.[124] Titled The Countdown to El Camino, the promotion resulted from Samsung's partnership with Netflix.[125] The countdown would also be available as a 62-hour livestream on Samsung televisions prior to the film's release.[126]
The campaign saw the return of Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul character Huell Babineaux, with Lavell Crawford reprising the role.[124] Throughout the countdown, Huell appeared in several short video interludes of him sitting impatiently in a safe house,[N 10] loafing around or watching the news.[127][128] Upon the countdown's conclusion, a video showed of Huell leaving the safe house.[129] The character ultimately did not appear in El Camino, but many remarked that the promotion answered a question long posed by fans of Huell's fate after Breaking Bad ended.[124][127][128]
Over 3.5 million viewers watched the livestream before the film's release. Chemistry, the advertising agency behind the promotion, later submitted the campaign for award consideration under the name Waiting with Huell. The campaign earned Bronze Distinction in Television for the 12th Annual Shorty Awards and the Bronze Award for Branded Entertainment & Content for the 2020 Clio Awards.[130][131]

Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short[edit]
In conjunction with the television premiere of El Camino on AMC, the network released a three-minute short film Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short on its official YouTube account on February 16, 2020.[132][133] The short, directed by Eric Schmidt and written by Melissa Ng, stars Jesse Plemons as Todd with Laura Fraser providing her voice as Lydia Rodarte-Quayle.[134][135] Taking place at some point before the events of the film, the short features Todd assembling a custom snow globe which includes his and Lydia's likenesses and little floating Stevia packets, as he tries to call her to ask her on a date.[136][137] El Camino previously featured the same snow globe in the scene when Casey inspects Todd's bedroom.[138]

Release[edit]
El Camino marked one of Robert Forster's final appearances, as he died on the day of the film's release.
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie had its world premiere on October 7, 2019, at the Regency Village Theatre in Los Angeles, with multiple cast members from the film, Breaking Bad, and Better Call Saul in attendance.[38][139] Netflix digitally released the film on October 11, 2019.[31] El Camino also received a limited theatrical release from October 11 to 13 in the United States.[140] It later premiered on AMC television on February 16, 2020, following a complete marathon of the series on the network.[141]
On the day of El Camino's release, Robert Forster, who played Ed in both the series and film, died of complications from brain cancer, at the age of 78.[142] Among others throughout Hollywood, the cast and crew of Breaking Bad paid tribute to him.[72][143][144] According to Aaron Paul, Forster watched the film before his passing: "he was so proud of it and of me. He called to tell me that he loved me. I sensed something was wrong, but I got on a plane and, when I landed, he'd died. It was incredibly sad to hear".[145]

Audience viewership[edit]
Nielsen reported that El Camino drew 2.65 million viewers within a day of its release, with an overall 6.54 million total viewers during opening weekend.[146][147] An additional reported 8.2 million viewers watched a few minutes of El Camino during its first three days of availability.[146] This compared well to Breaking Bad's fifth-season premiere with 5.9 million viewers and finale with 10.3 million when they first aired on AMC.[148][149] After the first week of its release, Netflix announced that over 25 million households had seen the film.[150]
For El Camino's limited theatrical release, 12 of the 125 theaters that screened the film reported a combined gross of $40,000, an average of $3,333 per venue.[3] TheWrap calculated that if El Camino received a proper wide theatrical release, and that if every reported viewer had purchased a ticket for the average price to see it, then the film would have topped the box office that weekend.[151] Months later, El Camino drew 774,000 viewers for its AMC television premiere.[152]

Home media[edit]
El Camino received its first home video release on October 13, 2020, as a DVD/Blu-ray combo packaged in a limited edition steelbook from Sony Pictures Home Entertainment. Features exclusive to the Blu-ray consisted of a commentary track from Vince Gilligan and Aaron Paul, deleted and extended scenes, a gag reel, and scene studies with Gilligan. Other features on both the Blu-ray and DVD included a commentary track from multiple members of the cast and crew, a behind-the-scenes documentary, promotional teasers and trailers, and visual effects design galleries.[153]

Reception[edit]
Critical response[edit]
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie has a score of 92% based on the opinions of 133 critics, with an average rating of 7.3/10. Its critical consensus read, "Entertaining if not essential, El Camino adds a satisfying belated coda to the Breaking Bad story – led by a career-best performance from Aaron Paul".[154] Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned El Camino a score of 72 out of 100 based on 34 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".[155]
Judy Berman of Time lauded Aaron Paul's "mesmerizing" lead performance, citing his ease at "fully re-inhabiting a role he hadn't played for years ... endowing Jesse with the same mix of (waning) goofiness and (escalating) existential terror that propelled him through the finale".[156] Liz Shannon Miller elaborated, in her review from The Verge, that "[Paul's] work in El Camino is staggering, given the high difficulty factor that comes with having to play so many variations of this character" and followed this by stating "what makes El Camino so compelling is the way it engages with how he's changed since those early days".[157] In contrast, GQ's David Levesley felt El Camino did not utilize Paul's full potential, saying that "without actors to bounce off, the film often doesn't know what to do with him".[158] Daniel Fienberg of The Hollywood Reporter would also highlight Jesse Plemons' performance, mentioning "Plemons never got the respect he deserved ... and this might be a good time to properly relish what an odd and awful guy Todd was".[159]
Fienberg further commended Vince Gilligan's direction, calling Gilligan "a precise and complicated visual stylist ... the conception of Breaking Bad as a modern Western has never been so clearly articulated and executed". He also credited cinematographer Marshall Adams, editor Skip Macdonald, and composer Dave Porter, all of whom worked on Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, for helping El Camino "return to the original show's grammar".[159] Writing for Entertainment Weekly, critic Darren Franich called Gilligan's style "energetic" and lauded the larger budget being applied "more for high anxiety than flashy pyrotechnics", citing El Camino's cinematography, editing, and montages as examples.[160] Erik Adams of The A.V. Club found the Western imagery a bit "clumsily deployed" but complimented the scale of the film.[161]

As a Breaking Bad continuation[edit]
From a narrative perspective, Alan Sepinwall of Rolling Stone praised El Camino as a continuation of Breaking Bad, stating that "if the [Breaking Bad] conclusion had a flaw ... it's that Jesse got left behind a bit. By the end of El Camino, that's no longer the case".[162] The Daily Beast's Melissa Leon agreed, saying that "Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan's meditative neo-western El Camino attaches a coda to Jesse's story, detailing the emotional (and physical) scars Walt left him to live with".[163] Regarding the film's chronology from the preceding series, Steve Greene of IndieWire commented "though the specter of Jesse's former partners haunt El Camino, Gilligan effectively holds the audience's attention to keep them focused on the present".[164] When comparing the film to other franchise continuation projects, Roxanne Sancto of Little White Lies mentioned that "movie spin-offs [have] become a dangerous trend that often ends in disappointment ... the balance needs to be just right and, fortunately, creator Vince Gilligan has nailed it with El Camino".[165]
While Josh Spiegel of /Film found El Camino enjoyable, he conversely saw the film as inessential to the overall arc of the series. He wrote that "if you loved Breaking Bad ... you might have wondered, 'What will happen to Jesse Pinkman next?' It's not even that Vince Gilligan answering that question was a bad idea. It's that a two-hour version of that answer, as beautiful as it looks and as well-acted as it is, was wholly superfluous".[166] Franich similarly compared El Camino to a television reunion special, calling it "a playful project, very fun, not always necessary".[160] Less complimentary was the BBC's Hugh Montgomery, who described it as "a franchise extension as lazy and vacuous as anything dreamt up on the big-screen".[167] However, Alissa Wilkinson of Vox reasoned that the enjoyment of El Camino "comes from seeing your favorite characters again, not finally resolving missing pieces that have tortured your sleep for six years".[168]
Brian Tallerico of RogerEbert.com also noted the necessity of having seen the entirety of Breaking Bad before watching the film, writing that "if you're hazy on what happened in the AMC hit, be warned that El Camino does not hold your hand. It is not designed to exist as a standalone movie as much as something watched after the end of season five".[169] Richard Roeper of Chicago Sun-Times concurred, saying "you'll be as lost as Badger without Skinny Pete if you tried to watch this sharp and compelling sequel without having seen the series".[170] When speaking as to which audience would enjoy the film, Vadim Rizov of Sight & Sound remarked that "El Camino will only work for fans who can recall who all these familiar faces are – the nostalgic pull and possibility for reconnection are sometimes recapped in dialogue, most of it avoiding the ludicrously expository, but outsiders will be baffled".[171]

Accolades[edit]
El Camino received several nominations in the streaming or television film categories from major industry award ceremonies where Breaking Bad previously won multiple accolades in the television series categories.[172][173][174] Three awards won by the film included Best Movie Made for Television at the Critics' Choice Television Awards, Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Single Presentation at the Golden Reel Awards, and Best Motion Picture Made for Television at the Satellite Awards.[175][176][177]
For the 72nd Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards, El Camino received four nominations: Outstanding Television Movie, Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing and Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Limited Series or Movie, and Outstanding Sound Editing for a Limited Series, Movie, or Special.[178] Many critics predicted that Paul and Plemons would be respectively nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor and Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie for their roles in the film, but both actors were left off when the nominees were announced.[179][180] As Breaking Bad collected a total of sixteen Emmy Awards throughout its run, some critics also felt El Camino could potentially win Outstanding Television Movie based on the series' prior clout with voters.[181][182][183] However, Bad Education went on to claim the award, while Watchmen won in every technical category where El Camino was nominated.[184]


Accolades received by El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie


Award

Date of ceremony

Category

Nominees

Result

Refs


Cinema Audio Society Awards

January 25, 2020

Outstanding Achievement in Sound Mixing for Television Movie or Limited Series

Phillip W. Palmer, Larry B. Benjamin, Kevin Valentine, Greg Hayes, Chris Navarro, and Stacey Michaels

Nominated

[185][186]


Critics' Choice Television Awards

January 12, 2020

Best Movie Made for Television

El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie

Won

[187][175]


Best Supporting Actor in a Movie/Miniseries

Jesse Plemons

Nominated


Directors Guild of America Awards

January 25, 2020

Outstanding Directing – Movies for Television and Limited Series

Vince Gilligan[a]

Nominated

[188][189]


Golden Reel Awards

January 19, 2020

Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Single Presentation

Kurt Nicholas Forshager, Todd Toon, Kathryn Madsen, Jane Boegel, Luke Gibleon, Jason Tregoe Newman, Bryant J. Fuhrmann, Jeff Cranford, Gregg Barbanell, and Alex Ullrich

Won

[190][176]


Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards

September 16, 2020[b]

Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Limited Series or Movie

Skip Macdonald

Nominated

[178][184]


Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Limited Series or Movie

Phillip W. Palmer, Larry B. Benjamin, Kevin Valentine, and Stacey Michaels

Nominated


September 19, 2020[b]

Outstanding Sound Editing for a Limited Series, Movie, or Special

Kurt Nicholas Forshager, Todd Toon, Kathryn Madsen, Jane Boegel, Luke Gibleon, Jason Tregoe Newman, Bryant J. Fuhrmann, Jeff Cranford, Gregg Barbanell, and Alex Ullrich

Nominated


Outstanding Television Movie

El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie

Nominated


Producers Guild of America Awards

January 18, 2020

Outstanding Producer of Streamed or Televised Motion Pictures

Mark Johnson, Melissa Bernstein, Charles Newirth, Vince Gilligan, Aaron Paul, and Diane Mercer

Nominated

[192][193]


Satellite Awards

December 19, 2019

Best Actor – Miniseries or Television Film

Aaron Paul

Nominated

[194][177]


Best Motion Picture Made for Television

El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie

Won


Saturn Awards

October 26, 2021

Best Action or Adventure Film

El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie

Nominated

[195][196]


Best Actor in a Film

Aaron Paul

Nominated


Writers Guild of America Awards

February 1, 2020

Television: Long Form – Adapted

Vince Gilligan

Nominated

[197][198]



^ Additional nominees: Robin Le Chanu, Charles Newirth (unit production managers), John Wildermuth (first assistant director), Katy Galow (second assistant director), Nathan E. Davis (second second assistant director), Melissa Bosco-Laude, and Chad Goyette (additional second assistant directors).[188]

^ a b The 72nd Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards ceremony took place from September 14 to 17, 2020, and on September 19, 2020. The date listed next to each Emmy category denotes when the corresponding award was given.[191]


Future[edit]
Both Vince Gilligan and Aaron Paul regarded El Camino as the proper conclusion to Jesse Pinkman's story, with neither having immediate plans for a sequel after the film's release.[71][199] Speculating on Jesse's new life in Haines, Alaska, following the events of El Camino, Gilligan surmised that Jesse "would enjoy the brewery and maybe get a job with the ski manufacturer ... the very nice people of Alaska would welcome him into the community".[71] Paul believed that Jesse is "going to keep his nose clean. He has quite a bit of cash on hand. And he's going to live a very modest lifestyle. He's moving to a very small place in Alaska, so he doesn't need all that much money. He knows how to work with his hands, and so he just needs to refresh those skills and become the artist that he was always meant to be".[13]
However, neither Gilligan nor Paul definitively ruled out the possibility of a sequel film to El Camino.[12][32] Gilligan wanted to create a new story outside of the Breaking Bad franchise once he helped finish the final season of Better Call Saul, but indicated a slight chance of returning to Jesse's storyline if everyone still held interest.[2][12] He suggested a possible sequel could take place in Haines.[71] Paul said he would be interested in playing Jesse again if Gilligan felt he had more story to tell, but highly doubted such a scenario could occur since the film gave the character a satisfying ending.[52] He also expressed a desire to work with Gilligan again, regardless if the project was related to Breaking Bad or not.[199] Though Paul signaled warmth to the idea of seeing Jesse's adventures in Alaska, he also declined the prospect of a new Breaking Bad season that would focus on him.[52][200]
Paul would eventually reprise Jesse Pinkman again in Better Call Saul's final season for two episodes, with Gilligan directing the second.[201] However, his character's appearances canonically took place before the events of El Camino.[202][203] After the initial announcement of his guest-starring role, Paul reiterated that any other return as Jesse Pinkman required Gilligan's involvement.[47] Gilligan reaffirmed he had no plans for any new entries in the Breaking Bad franchise shortly before Better Call Saul concluded.[201] Following the series finale, Paul said he felt confident that Better Call Saul marked Jesse's final appearances and called it a farewell to his character.[204]

Notes[edit]


^ During the events of "Buyout" and "Say My Name", set around early 2010.[4][5][6]

^ a b c As depicted in "Felina".[7]

^ Identified offscreen as Lydia Rodarte-Quayle.[8]

^ After the events of "Granite State".[7]

^ As depicted in "Confessions".[7]

^ During the events of "4 Days Out".[11]

^ Set after the events of the cold open flashback in "Abiquiu".[4]

^ A callback to a similar scene in "Peekaboo".[47]

^ The original song by The Platters previously appeared in "Mandala".[116]

^ Where he supposedly resided since "To'hajiilee".[124]


References[edit]


^ "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Netflix. Archived from the original on October 2, 2019. Retrieved September 18, 2019.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Keegan, Rebecca (September 18, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Returns: Aaron Paul and Vince Gilligan Take a TV Classic for a Spin in 'El Camino'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved September 18, 2019.

^ a b Brueggemann, Tom (October 13, 2019). "Record-Breaking 'Parasite' Scores the Best Platform Opening Since 'La La Land'". IndieWire. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved November 6, 2019.

^ a b Wigler, Josh (October 11, 2019). "How 'El Camino' Honors and Moves Beyond 'Breaking Bad'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ Halterman, Jim (October 23, 2019). "Vince Gilligan on the Possibility of More 'Breaking Bad'-Inspired Movies". TV Insider. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 23, 2019.

^ Miller, Liz Shannon (October 15, 2019). "How El Camino Fits into the Breaking Bad Timeline". Vulture. New York, NY. Archived from the original on October 20, 2020. Retrieved December 30, 2020.

^ a b c d e f Sepinwall, Alan (October 12, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Recap: Jesse Pinkman Is Born Again". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Jeffery, Morgan (October 17, 2019). "Laura Fraser reacts to her Breaking Bad character's El Camino fate". Radio Times. Archived from the original on June 13, 2020. Retrieved June 13, 2020.

^ Eger, Chris (October 14, 2019). "Jesse Pinkman is Back: The Curious Guns of El Camino". Guns.com. Burnsville, MN. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 30, 2019.

^ Maccar, David (October 14, 2019). "Guns of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Range 365. Winter Park, FL: Bonnier Corporation. Archived from the original on September 27, 2020. Retrieved December 7, 2020.

^ a b c Ryan, Patrick (October 14, 2019). "'El Camino': 'Breaking Bad' creator explains how that major character returned". USA Today. Archived from the original on February 18, 2020. Retrieved October 8, 2021.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m Snierson, Dan (October 15, 2019). "Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan breaks down El Camino – and how he decided which characters to revive". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ a b c Snierson, Dan (October 13, 2019). "Aaron Paul breaks down El Camino, surprise reunions, and if he'll play Jesse again". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 15, 2020. Retrieved June 7, 2020.

^ Bowman, Donna (October 11, 2019). "El Camino gives the Breaking Bad-verse its first redemption story". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Nevins, Bill (March 27, 2013). "Contemporary Western: An Interview with Vince Gilligan". Local iQ. Archived from the original on April 3, 2013. Retrieved June 7, 2020.

^ Bojalad, Alec (October 14, 2019). "El Camino: Breaking Bad Easter Eggs and Reference Guide". Den of Geek. Archived from the original on March 23, 2020. Retrieved June 11, 2020.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k Sepinwall, Alan (October 15, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Creator Vince Gilligan on 'El Camino' and Rooting for Jesse Pinkman". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ The Ringer Staff (October 14, 2019). "The 'El Camino' Exit Survey". The Ringer. Archived from the original on April 20, 2020. Retrieved June 11, 2020.

^ Meyer, Joshua (October 14, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Spoiler Review: Getting the Band Back Together for a Gunslinging Netflix Coda". /Film. Archived from the original on October 22, 2019. Retrieved June 11, 2020.

^ a b Phillips, David (June 29, 2020). "Editor Skip Macdonald on Cutting 'El Camino,' 'Better Call Saul,' and 'Breaking Bad'". Awards Daily. Archived from the original on June 29, 2020. Retrieved June 29, 2020.

^ a b Phillips, David (May 13, 2020). "Composer Dave Porter on Scoring 'El Camino' and the Entire 'Breaking Bad' Universe". Awards Daily. Archived from the original on May 18, 2020. Retrieved May 18, 2020.

^ Travers, Ben (October 12, 2019). "'El Camino' Is an Ideal Epilogue to a Perfect Ending, Not Another Chapter of 'Breaking Bad'". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ Seitz, Matt Zoller (October 11, 2019). "El Camino Gives Breaking Bad Fans Exactly What They Want". Vulture. Archived from the original on December 17, 2019. Retrieved June 7, 2020.

^ Lyons, Margaret (October 28, 2013). "Behold the Final Two Pages of Breaking Bad's Finale Script". Variety. Archived from the original on April 14, 2021. Retrieved March 30, 2022.

^ Snierson, Dan (September 30, 2013). "'Breaking Bad': Creator Vince Gilligan explains series finale". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ a b c Snierson, Dan (October 14, 2019). "Aaron Paul and Vince Gilligan reveal two alternate endings to El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ a b c d Fernandez, Maria Elena (October 14, 2019). "The Breaking Bad Movie Almost Had a Very Different Ending". Vulture. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 26, 2019.

^ a b Birnbaum, Debra (April 5, 2017). "'Better Call Saul's' 'Breaking' Point: How It's Gearing Up for Gus Fring". Variety. Archived from the original on July 22, 2020. Retrieved February 16, 2022.

^ Davids, Brian (August 16, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Team Talks Finding Closure With Series Finale". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 16, 2022. Retrieved August 30, 2022.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (August 1, 2022). "Better Call Saul Writer on Finally Entering the World of Breaking Bad". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on August 12, 2022. Retrieved August 2, 2022.

^ a b c d e Itzkoff, Dave (August 24, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Movie, Starring Aaron Paul, Coming to Netflix in October". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved August 24, 2019.

^ a b c Sepinwall, Alan (October 19, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie': Aaron Paul on Jesse Pinkman's Wild Ride". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 21, 2019.

^ Mack, David (October 24, 2019). "Aaron Paul Revealed The Touching Response To His "BoJack" Character's Sexuality". Buzzfeed News. Archived from the original on January 4, 2021. Retrieved March 29, 2022.

^ a b c d Raftery, Brian (October 1, 2019). "95 Minutes With Aaron Paul: The Breaking Bad star returns to his greatest role". Vulture. Archived from the original on October 1, 2019. Retrieved October 4, 2021.

^ Stolworthy, Jacob (October 18, 2019). "Aaron Paul: 'Even after I tested for Breaking Bad, no one wanted me to play Jesse Pinkman'". The Independent. Archived from the original on June 4, 2021. Retrieved October 4, 2021.

^ Chow, Andrew (October 2, 2019). "Aaron Paul on Revisiting His 'Old Friend' Jesse Pinkman in El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Time. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 29, 2019.

^ a b Naahar, Rohan (October 19, 2019). "Aaron Paul exclusive interview: El Camino star talks about the diner scene, teases more Breaking Bad stories". Hindustan Times. Archived from the original on August 23, 2021. Retrieved October 19, 2019.

^ a b Couch, Aaron (October 8, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Universe Collides at 'El Camino' Premiere". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ a b Ryan, Patrick (October 19, 2019). "'El Camino': Jesse Plemons calls 'Breaking Bad' sequel 'the darkest buddy comedy ever'". USA Today. Archived from the original on February 15, 2020. Retrieved June 21, 2020.

^ Shaffer, Marshall (June 16, 2020). "Jesse Plemons Reflects On 'El Camino,' Acting Opposite Philip Seymour Hoffman In 'The Master' & More". The Playlist. Archived from the original on January 24, 2022. Retrieved April 3, 2022.

^ a b Bell, Amanda (June 23, 2020). "Vince Gilligan Says El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie Balanced the 'Scales of Justice' for Jesse Pinkman". TV Guide. Archived from the original on June 24, 2020. Retrieved July 2, 2020.

^ Couch, Aaron; Wigler, Josh (October 13, 2019). "Will 'Breaking Bad' Movie 'El Camino' Influence the End of 'Better Call Saul'?". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 13, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ Spencer, Samuel (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino' Ending Explained: What Happened at the End of the 'Breaking Bad' Movie and Will There Be a Sequel?". Newsweek. Archived from the original on November 16, 2019. Retrieved June 10, 2020.

^ Davids, Brian (September 30, 2021). "Krysten Ritter on 'Nightbooks' and the Legacy of 'Breaking Bad'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on September 30, 2021. Retrieved September 30, 2021.

^ Chow, Andrew (October 11, 2019). "Aaron Paul on the Ending – and the Cameos – of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Time. Archived from the original on January 11, 2022. Retrieved April 4, 2022.

^ a b Bell, Amanda (October 11, 2019). "Aaron Paul Explains Jesse's Letter at the End of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". TV Guide. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ a b c d e Davids, Brian (April 15, 2022). "Aaron Paul on 'Dual' and Guest-Starring on 'Better Call Saul'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 17, 2022. Retrieved April 17, 2022.

^ Andreeva, Nellie (February 13, 2019). "Vince Gilligan's 'Breaking Bad' Movie Headed To Netflix & AMC". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on February 13, 2019. Retrieved July 1, 2019.

^ Gomez, Adrian (November 6, 2018). "'Breaking Bad' coming to the big screen". Albuquerque Journal. Archived from the original on July 25, 2019. Retrieved July 24, 2019.

^ a b Couch, Aaron (October 12, 2019). "How 'El Camino' Brought Back 'Breaking Bad' Favorites Badger and Skinny Pete". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 16, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ a b Hullfish, Steve (August 30, 2020). "ART OF THE CUT with the editor of "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie"". ProVideoCoalition. Archived from the original on May 6, 2021. Retrieved April 3, 2022.

^ a b c Meslow, Scott (October 14, 2019). "Aaron Paul on Breaking Bad One More Time". GQ. Archived from the original on June 27, 2021. Retrieved July 31, 2021.

^ Lawrence, Derek (October 16, 2019). "Jesse Plemons talks his extended El Camino return, Todd's admiration for Jesse". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on July 23, 2021. Retrieved July 30, 2021.

^ Harnick, Chris (October 11, 2019). "Aaron Paul on the "Beautiful, Crazy Story" of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". E! News. Archived from the original on January 13, 2021. Retrieved March 29, 2022.

^ Greene, Steve (October 14, 2019). "'El Camino': Aaron Paul on Why Recreating a 'Breaking Bad' Scene Was the Movie's Toughest Moment". IndieWire. Archived from the original on March 4, 2021. Retrieved August 9, 2021.

^ a b c Snierson, Dan (October 11, 2019). "Breaking Bad: Aaron Paul on that top secret scene in El Camino". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ a b c d e Altman, Randi (October 23, 2019). "DP Chat: Marshall Adams talks El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". postPerspective. Archived from the original on April 20, 2020. Retrieved March 27, 2020.

^ a b c d Phillips, David (December 9, 2019). "Production Designer Judy Rhee Enters the World Of 'Breaking Bad' With 'El Camino'". Awards Daily. Archived from the original on December 8, 2019. Retrieved June 5, 2020.

^ a b c d e Phillips, David (June 4, 2020). "Cinematographer Marshall Adams on Making 'El Camino' Into a Modern Day Western". Awards Daily. Archived from the original on June 5, 2020. Retrieved June 5, 2020.

^ a b c Hogg, Trevor (January 14, 2020). "The Cinematography and Color Grading of 'El Camino': A Creative and Technical Achievement". Sound & Picture. Archived from the original on May 13, 2020. Retrieved June 5, 2020.

^ a b Goldrich, Robert (June 5, 2020). "Adams, Macdonald Reflect On Lensing, Editing "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie"". Shoot. Archived from the original on June 8, 2020. Retrieved June 18, 2020.

^ "Albuquerque Studios: Recent Productions". Albuquerque Studios. Archived from the original on June 6, 2020. Retrieved June 8, 2020.

^ "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie Cooks a Crystal-Clear Mix with Lectrosonics". Lectrosonics. November 5, 2019. Archived from the original on March 25, 2023. Retrieved June 6, 2023.

^ Brennan, Matt (October 14, 2019). "Being one of TV's best character actors suits Jesse Plemons just fine". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on February 14, 2022. Retrieved April 3, 2022.

^ a b Grouchnikov, Kirill (December 15, 2019). "Production design of "El Camino" – interview with Judy Rhee". Pushing Pixels. Archived from the original on July 12, 2021. Retrieved July 12, 2021.

^ Rowles, Dustin (February 2, 2019). "The 'Breaking Bad' Movie Is Currently Shooting in Familiar Locations". Uproxx. Archived from the original on April 29, 2020. Retrieved March 17, 2020.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (February 23, 2020). "'Better Call Saul' Season Premiere Recap: 'Magic Man'". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on February 24, 2020. Retrieved February 23, 2020.

^ Hedash, Kara (January 9, 2020). "Breaking Bad: Walter White's Bloody Handprint Was In El Camino". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on January 15, 2020. Retrieved February 24, 2020.

^ "Jesse Plemons and Aaron Paul Arrived in the Painted Desert via Vince Gilligan's Helicopter to Shoot a Pivotal 'El Camino' Scene". Yahoo!. November 1, 2019. Archived from the original on October 20, 2021. Retrieved October 20, 2021.

^ Fienberg, Daniel (April 6, 2020). "'Better Call Saul's' Vince Gilligan on the 'Bagman' Desert Shoot: "Just Pure Hell"". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 7, 2020. Retrieved June 15, 2020.

^ a b c d Clayton, Kyle (November 14, 2019). "Haines cameos in Breaking Bad movie". Chilkat Valley News. Archived from the original on April 28, 2020. Retrieved April 28, 2020.

^ a b c Snierson, Dan (October 15, 2019). "Vince Gilligan pays tribute to Robert Forster and how he did big little things in El Camino". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 22, 2019. Retrieved October 21, 2019.

^ a b McVey, Ciara (August 20, 2019). "Bob Odenkirk Teases 'Better Call Saul' Season 5: "Everything's on Fire and It's Burning Down Around Us"". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 21, 2019. Retrieved August 22, 2019.

^ Wigler, Josh (October 15, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Star on Secret 'El Camino' Role: "It Just Felt Classic"". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ Singh, Olivia (October 29, 2019). "Watch Aaron Paul transform into Jesse Pinkman for flashbacks in Netflix's 'Breaking Bad' film". Business Insider. Archived from the original on August 18, 2022. Retrieved August 23, 2023.

^ a b Chitwood, Adam (October 14, 2019). "'El Camino' Composer Dave Porter on Returning to the World of 'Breaking Bad'". Collider. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Goldberg, Lesley (November 6, 2018). "'Breaking Bad' Movie From Creator Vince Gilligan in the Works". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 19, 2019. Retrieved March 17, 2019.

^ Hall, Jacob (November 7, 2018). "Exclusive: The 'Breaking Bad' Movie Will Be a Sequel Following Jesse After the Series Finale, Aaron Paul to Return". /Film. Archived from the original on January 9, 2020. Retrieved January 21, 2020.

^ France, Lisa Respers (November 8, 2018). "Bryan Cranston confirms 'Breaking Bad' movie happening". CNN. Archived from the original on August 25, 2019. Retrieved March 17, 2019.

^ a b c d Sepinwall, Alan (October 14, 2019). "Bryan Cranston on 'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie'". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 14, 2019. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ Kiefer, Halle (June 9, 2019). "Hadestown, The Ferryman Lead 2019 Tony Award Winners". Vulture. Archived from the original on April 28, 2021. Retrieved July 14, 2021.

^ Blisten, Jon (October 21, 2019). "Watch Bryan Cranston Transform into Walter White in Less Than a Minute". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019. Retrieved October 22, 2019.

^ a b Keegan, Rebecca (October 14, 2019). "The Secrets Behind Bryan Cranston's Clandestine 'El Camino' Cameo". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 23, 2021. Retrieved August 23, 2021.

^ Harding, Laura (October 25, 2019). "Aaron Paul on El Camino: It's a proper way to say goodbye to Jesse Pinkman". The Irish News. Archived from the original on April 20, 2020. Retrieved October 26, 2019.

^ Ryan, Patrick (October 10, 2019). "Aaron Paul on making the top-secret 'Breaking Bad' movie: 'It felt like a 'Star Wars' set'". USA Today. Archived from the original on February 23, 2020. Retrieved April 19, 2020.

^ Weiss, Josh (October 16, 2019). "How Did 'El Camino' Stay Such A Secret? The Movie's Production Designer Has Answers". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 22, 2019. Retrieved August 7, 2021.

^ Fisher, Neil (August 17, 2019). "Aaron Paul interview – how drugs and crime paid off for the star of El Camino and Breaking Bad". The Times. Archived from the original on July 17, 2020. Retrieved March 28, 2022.

^ Welk, Brian (October 24, 2019). "Jesse Plemons Says He Would 'Lie to Strangers Repeatedly' About Filming 'El Camino'". TheWrap. Archived from the original on October 25, 2019. Retrieved October 26, 2019.

^ Goldberg, Lesley (February 13, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Movie Is a Sequel Starring Aaron Paul and Will Air on AMC and Netflix". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 22, 2019. Retrieved March 17, 2019.

^ Nyren, Erin (March 16, 2019). "Aaron Paul Addresses 'Breaking Bad' Movie Reports: 'It Has to Star Jesse'". Variety. Archived from the original on November 29, 2020. Retrieved August 3, 2021.

^ Gates, Christopher (March 9, 2020). "Actor Tony Dalton opens up about Better Call Saul – Exclusive interview". Looper.com. Archived from the original on March 16, 2020. Retrieved March 16, 2020.

^ a b Jacobsen, Jacob (June 15, 2020). "Skip Macdonald ('El Camino' editor) on the differences between 'Breaking Bad' and its sequel Netflix movie". Gold Derby. Archived from the original on June 16, 2020. Retrieved July 2, 2020.

^ Weintraub, Steve "Frosty" (October 13, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Was Originally 3 Hours Says Aaron Paul". Collider. Archived from the original on October 13, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Davenport, Khris 'Khal' (October 12, 2020). "Watch This Previously-Unreleased Scene From 'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie'". Complex Networks. Archived from the original on October 14, 2020. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ Russell, Bradley (October 18, 2019). "Aaron Paul on the El Camino deleted scene he "fought" to keep in the final movie". GamesRadar+. Archived from the original on November 24, 2020. Retrieved October 4, 2021.

^ Agar, Chris (October 13, 2020). "Jesse Hasn't Changed His Old Ways in El Camino Deleted Scene". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on October 14, 2020. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ Snierson, Dan (October 12, 2020). "Breaking Bad: El Camino alternate ending revealed where Jesse tries to propose to Jane". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 12, 2020. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ a b c Weiss, Josh (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino' Composer Cooks Up His Thoughts On Revisiting The 'Breaking Bad' Finale". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 13, 2019. Retrieved October 27, 2019.

^ Grobar, Matt (August 15, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Composer Dave Porter Unveils Music From AMC Series' Swan Song Season As Its Finale Looms – Hear The Exclusive Track". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on August 15, 2022. Retrieved August 16, 2022.

^ Russell, Bradley (June 5, 2020). "I am the one who rocks: El Camino's composer on bringing the Breaking Bad saga to a fitting end". GamesRadar+. Archived from the original on August 3, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.

^ O'Brien, Rebecca (May 13, 2020). "Looking at El Camino: An Interview with Dave Porter". Film Music Central. Archived from the original on January 28, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.

^ a b c Wood, Jennifer (October 15, 2019). "The Hidden Breaking Bad References in El Camino's Musical Score". Vulture. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 27, 2019.

^ a b Ames, Jeff (October 30, 2020). "CS Score: Bride of Frankenstein and El Camino's Dave Porter & Thomas Golubić". ComingSoon.net. Archived from the original on February 25, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.

^ a b c Burton, Bryan (June 23, 2020). "Dave Porter: The Musical Architect of Walter White and Saul Goodman". Awards Focus. Archived from the original on January 19, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.

^ Gartenberg, Ruby (October 31, 2019). "Dave Porter". Pop Disciple. Archived from the original on April 30, 2020. Retrieved April 30, 2020.

^ Kaye, Ben (October 12, 2020). "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie Soundtrack Gets First-Ever Release from Mondo". Consequence of Sound. Archived from the original on October 13, 2020. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ Sorren, Martha (October 11, 2019). "The El Camino Soundtrack Doesn't Overshadow Jesse's Journey". Refinery29. Archived from the original on April 30, 2020. Retrieved April 30, 2020.

^ Hough, Q.V. (October 11, 2019). "El Camino Soundtrack: Every Song In The Breaking Bad Movie". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019. Retrieved April 30, 2020.

^ Drury, Sharareh; Beresford, Trilby (August 24, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Movie Headed to Netflix This Fall, Teaser and Poster Released". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on September 28, 2019. Retrieved October 12, 2019.

^ Lattanzio, Ryan (August 24, 2019). "Netflix Reveals 'Breaking Bad' Movie, Release Date, First Clip". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 16, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ Roberts, Andrew (August 24, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Fans Weigh in on Upcoming Netflix Movie 'El Camino'". PopCulture.com. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Politi, Daniel (August 25, 2019). "Netflix Confirms Rumors: Breaking Bad Movie Will Be Released in October". Slate. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ a b Gemmill, Allie (August 24, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Release Date Announced in First Teaser". Collider. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Wigler, Josh (October 16, 2019). "'El Camino': 7 Questions After the 'Breaking Bad' Movie". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 25, 2019. Retrieved October 24, 2019.

^ Dwilson, Stephanie Dube (October 12, 2019). "'El Camino' Skinny Pete Missing Scene: What Happened?". Heavy. Archived from the original on October 13, 2019. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ Miller, Matt (September 10, 2019). "This New Song For Breaking Bad Movie El Camino Is a Subtle Hint at Jesse Pinkman's Most Defining Moment". Esquire. Archived from the original on September 11, 2019. Retrieved June 12, 2020.

^ Sharf, Zack (September 10, 2019). "Prepare for the 'Breaking Bad' Movie With Netflix's Unbearable Supercut of Jesse Pinkman's Pain". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019. Retrieved October 21, 2019.

^ Patches, Matt (September 22, 2019). "The teaser for Netflix's Breaking Bad sequel El Camino recalls gruesome details". Polygon. Archived from the original on November 17, 2019. Retrieved September 22, 2019.

^ Welk, Brian (September 24, 2019). "'El Camino' Trailer: Aaron Paul's Jesse Pinkman Is 'Ready' in First Full Look at 'Breaking Bad' Movie". TheWrap. Archived from the original on September 24, 2019. Retrieved September 24, 2019.

^ Agar, Chris (September 24, 2019). "Breaking Bad Movie Trailer Song (& What It Means For El Camino)". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on July 24, 2021. Retrieved December 23, 2023.

^ Evangelista, Chris (September 29, 2019). "The Latest 'El Camino' Teaser Brings Back Another 'Breaking Bad' Character". /Film. Archived from the original on October 1, 2019. Retrieved April 28, 2020.

^ Ferguson, LaToya (October 10, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie': Netflix Drops Behind the Scenes Featurette". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 10, 2019. Retrieved October 21, 2019.

^ Jussim, Matthew (October 30, 2019). "Go Behind the Scenes of the Making of 'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' in New Netflix Documentary". Men's Journal. Archived from the original on February 25, 2020. Retrieved February 24, 2020.

^ a b c d Gallagher, Caitlin (October 10, 2019). "The 'El Camino' Cast Is Full Of Your 'Breaking Bad' Faves". Bustle. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ "The Countdown to El Camino launches on Samsung TV Plus". Samsung. October 9, 2019. Archived from the original on October 16, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Nudd, Tim (December 16, 2019). "The Year in Creativity, 2019 – Part 1". Muse by Clio. Archived from the original on December 17, 2019. Retrieved May 5, 2020.

^ a b Singh, Olivia (October 11, 2019). "12 'Breaking Bad' stars who returned for Netflix's sequel movie 'El Camino'". Business Insider. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ a b McNear, Claire (October 15, 2019). "Ranking the Cameos From 'Breaking Bad' and 'Better Call Saul' in 'El Camino'". The Ringer. Archived from the original on October 25, 2019. Retrieved October 25, 2019.

^ Thoman, Lauren (October 14, 2019). "El Camino's biggest unanswered questions". Looper.com. Archived from the original on October 14, 2019. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ "Waiting With Huell". Shorty Awards. May 3, 2020. Archived from the original on April 13, 2020. Retrieved May 5, 2020.

^ "Waiting With Huell". Clio Awards. April 28, 2021. Archived from the original on May 9, 2021. Retrieved May 9, 2021.

^ Dick, Jeremy (February 17, 2020). "Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short Gives Us More of Todd from El Camino". MovieWeb. Archived from the original on February 18, 2020. Retrieved February 18, 2020.

^ "Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short | El Camino". AMC. February 16, 2020. Archived from the original on October 18, 2022. Retrieved October 19, 2022 – via YouTube.

^ Shoemaker, Allison (February 21, 2020). "Todd makes a "Snow Globe" in this new Breaking Bad short". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on February 22, 2020. Retrieved April 28, 2020.

^ Ehrlich, Brenna (February 21, 2020). "'Breaking Bad' Gifts Us a Todd-Centric Short Before 'Saul' Season Premiere". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on March 6, 2020. Retrieved April 29, 2020.

^ Rowles, Dustin (February 2, 2020). "A Brand New 'Breaking Bad' Short Gives Todd's Snow Globe An Origin Story". Uproxx. Archived from the original on February 20, 2020. Retrieved April 29, 2020.

^ Seth, Radhika (October 24, 2019). "Breaking Bad's Aaron Paul on El Camino, alternate endings and shooting in secret". Vogue India. Archived from the original on December 30, 2020. Retrieved April 17, 2022.

^ Venable, Nick (February 19, 2020). "New Breaking Bad Video Reveals The Story Behind Todd's Creepiest Snow Globe". CinemaBlend. Archived from the original on July 19, 2021. Retrieved July 19, 2021.

^ "Netflix hosts 'El Camino' premiere in California". KRQE. October 7, 2019. Archived from the original on October 10, 2019. Retrieved October 10, 2019.

^ Sharf, Zack (September 18, 2019). "Netflix Sets 'Breaking Bad' Movie Theatrical Release for One Weekend Only". IndieWire. Archived from the original on September 20, 2019. Retrieved September 18, 2019.

^ Mitovich, Matt Webb (January 7, 2020). "Breaking Bad Movie Gets AMC Premiere Date, Following a Full Series Marathon". TVLine. Archived from the original on January 8, 2020. Retrieved January 7, 2020.

^ Saperstein, Pat (October 11, 2019). "Robert Forster, Oscar-Nommed Star of 'Jackie Brown,' Dies at 78". Variety. Archived from the original on March 3, 2021. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ Haring, Bruce (October 11, 2019). "Robert Forster Saluted For His Acting Skill And Personal Warmth in Online Tributes". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ Andreeva, Nellie; Patten, Dominic (October 12, 2019). "Aaron Paul Remembers 'El Camino' Co-Star Robert Forster". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 12, 2019.

^ Power, Tom (October 18, 2019). "Aaron Paul says El Camino really is the end for Jesse Pinkman". Polygon. Archived from the original on October 19, 2019. Retrieved October 18, 2019.

^ a b Porter, Rick (October 17, 2019). "'El Camino' Draws Solid Opening-Weekend Viewing, Nielsen Says". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Thorne, Will (October 17, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Scores 6.5 Million Viewers Across First Weekend". Variety. Archived from the original on October 17, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Bibel, Sara (August 13, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Night, 'True Blood', 'Low Winter Sun', 'Devious Maids', 'Dexter', 'The Newsroom' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on June 10, 2016. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Bibel, Sara (October 1, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Big, 'Talking Bad', 'Homeland', 'Boardwalk Empire','Masters of Sex' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 24, 2013. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Snierson, Dan (October 23, 2019). "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie watched by 25 million-plus households in first week". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 23, 2019. Retrieved October 23, 2019.

^ Fuster, Jeremy (October 17, 2019). "'El Camino' Might Have Beaten 'Joker' at Weekend Box Office If Released in Theaters Nationwide". TheWrap. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Metcalf, Mitch (February 19, 2020). "Updated: ShowBuzzDaily's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 2.16.2020". Showbuzz Daily. Archived from the original on September 10, 2019. Retrieved February 28, 2020.

^ Prange, Stephane (August 26, 2020). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Blu-ray Combo Pack Steelbook Due Oct. 13". Media Play News. Archived from the original on August 26, 2020. Retrieved August 26, 2020.

^ "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango Media. Archived from the original on October 16, 2019. Retrieved July 16, 2023. 

^ "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Metacritic. Fandom, Inc. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved February 19, 2021. 

^ Berman, Judy (October 11, 2019). "Review: El Camino Transforms Breaking Bad's Jesse Pinkman Into an Action Hero for the Ages". Time. Archived from the original on February 23, 2020. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ Miller, Liz Shannon (October 11, 2019). "El Camino adds no redemption to Breaking Bad, but ups the insight into Jesse Pinkman". The Verge. Archived from the original on April 7, 2020. Retrieved April 25, 2020.

^ Levesley, David (October 11, 2019). "El Camino takes Breaking Bad and makes it... just bad". GQ. Archived from the original on February 2, 2020. Retrieved May 4, 2020.

^ a b Fienberg, Daniel (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie': TV Review". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ a b Franich, Darren (October 11, 2019). "El Camino is the Breaking Bad finale for everyone who thought Jesse got a raw deal". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Adams, Erik (October 11, 2019). "El Camino proves that Breaking Bad still has some twists and turns in it". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Review: Fan Service Firing on All Cylinders". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 14, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Leon, Melissa (October 14, 2019). "Aaron Paul on Jesse Pinkman's 'Heartbreaking' Reunion With Walter White in 'El Camino'". The Daily Beast. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ Greene, Steve (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino' Review: A Riveting Goodbye to 'Breaking Bad'". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ Sancto, Roxanne (October 12, 2019). "Review: El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Little White Lies. Archived from the original on January 5, 2020. Retrieved April 26, 2020.

^ Spiegel, Josh (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Review: Well-Executed, But Unnecessary". /Film. Archived from the original on December 7, 2019. Retrieved April 27, 2020.

^ Montgomery, Hugh (October 11, 2019). "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie is a Colossal Waste of Time". BBC. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 12, 2019.

^ Wilkinson, Alissa (October 13, 2019). "In El Camino, a desperate Jesse Pinkman tries to break free of Breaking Bad". Vox. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Tallerico, Blake (October 11, 2019). "Review: El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". RogerEbert.com. Archived from the original on April 12, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ Roeper, Richard (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino' movie on Netflix lives up to 'Breaking Bad' standards". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on November 22, 2019. Retrieved April 26, 2020.

^ Rizov, Vadim (October 16, 2019). "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie review – a tele-finale for old fans' sake". Sight & Sound. Archived from the original on October 17, 2019. Retrieved April 26, 2020.

^ Montgomery, Daniel (December 30, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' is the odds-on favorite to win at Critics' Choice Awards despite Aaron Paul's snub". Gold Derby. Archived from the original on November 5, 2021. Retrieved November 10, 2021.

^ Montgomery, Daniel (January 18, 2020). "'El Camino' expected to give the 'Breaking Bad'-verse its third PGA Award". Gold Derby. Archived from the original on November 2, 2021. Retrieved November 10, 2021.

^ Andreeva, Nellie (July 28, 2020). "'Breaking Bad' Prequel & Sequel Score Emmy Noms As 'Better Call Saul' & 'El Camino' Both Vie For Top Prizes". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on August 18, 2020. Retrieved November 10, 2020.

^ a b Boucher, Geoff; Ramos, Dino-Ray (January 12, 2020). "Critics' Choice Awards: 'Once Upon A Time In Hollywood' Wins Best Picture, Netflix And HBO Among Top Honorees – Full Winners List". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on February 16, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ a b Ramos, Dino-Ray (January 19, 2020). "MPSE Golden Reel Awards: 'Ford V Ferrari', '1917', 'Parasite', 'The Mandalorian' Among Winners". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on February 26, 2021. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ a b "2019 Winners". International Press Academy. December 19, 2019. Archived from the original on December 19, 2019. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ a b "2020 Primetime Emmy® Awards – Nomination Press Release" (PDF). Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. July 28, 2020. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 28, 2020. Retrieved July 28, 2020.

^ Feinberg, Scott (July 24, 2020). "Feinberg Forecast: Final Projections Ahead of Tuesday's Emmy Nominations". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 4, 2020. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ Hibberd, James (July 28, 2020). "Emmy nominations snubs and surprises 2020". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 30, 2021. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ Agard, Chancellor (September 9, 2017). "How many Emmys did Breaking Bad win?". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 30, 2021. Retrieved November 2, 2021.

^ Hammond, Pete (September 10, 2020). "Emmy Predictions 2020: Outstanding Television Movie – Netflix Has Four Of Five Nominees Including 'El Camino' But Is This Breaking 'Bad Education' For HBO?". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on September 10, 2020. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ Roush, Matt (September 16, 2020). "2020 Emmy Predictions for Limited Series & Movies: Matt Roush's Picks". TV Insider. Archived from the original on September 19, 2020. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ a b Greene, Steve (September 20, 2020). "'SNL,' Dave Chappelle, and 'Maisel' Top List of Creative Arts Emmys' Final Night Winners". IndieWire. Archived from the original on September 21, 2020. Retrieved September 21, 2020.

^ Giardina, Carolyn (January 25, 2020). "'Ford v Ferrari' Finishes First at Cinema Audio Society Awards". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 7, 2022. Retrieved August 31, 2022.

^ "56th CAS Awards Winners". Cinema Audio Society. February 16, 2020. Archived from the original on March 6, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ Schwartz, Ryan; Caruso, Nick (December 8, 2019). "Critics' Choice Awards 2020: Fleabag, Watchmen, When They See Us, Unbelievable Among TV Nominees". TVLine. Archived from the original on December 9, 2019. Retrieved December 8, 2019.

^ a b "DGA Announces 2019 Awards Nominees for: Movies for Television & Limited Series; Variety/Talk/News/Sports – Regularly Scheduled Programming; Reality Programs; Children's Programs; Commercials; and Documentary". Directors Guild of America. January 6, 2020. Archived from the original on January 11, 2020. Retrieved January 6, 2020.

^ THR Staff (January 25, 2020). "DGA Awards: Sam Mendes and '1917' Win Best Feature Film". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on February 10, 2020. Retrieved November 2, 2021.

^ Lattanzio, Ryan (December 16, 2019). "'Joker,' 'Once Upon a Time in Hollywood' Dominate Sound Editors' Golden Reel Noms". IndieWire. Archived from the original on August 2, 2021. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ Hammond, Pete (August 6, 2020). "Emmys: Television Academy Spreads 72nd Awards Presentations Over Six Nights In September, Reduces Number Of Primetime Categories". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on January 30, 2021. Retrieved October 1, 2021.

^ "Nominations Announced in Motion Pictures and Television Programs Categories – 2020 Awards". Producers Guild of America. January 7, 2020. Archived from the original on January 13, 2020. Retrieved January 7, 2020.

^ Crist, Allison; Keegan, Rebecca; Gardner, Chris; Howard, Annie (January 18, 2020). "PGA Awards: '1917' Named Outstanding Motion Picture". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 22, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ "International Press Academy – The 24th Annual Satellite Awards" (PDF). Satellite Awards. December 2, 2019. Archived (PDF) from the original on December 3, 2019. Retrieved December 4, 2019.

^ Hipes, Patrick (March 4, 2021). "Saturn Awards Nominations: 'Star Wars: Rise Of Skywalker', 'Tenet', 'Walking Dead', 'Outlander' Lead List". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on March 7, 2021. Retrieved March 7, 2021.

^ Tartaglione, Nancy (October 27, 2021). "Saturn Awards Winners: 'Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker' Leads With Five Prizes – Full List". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 27, 2021.

^ McNary, Dave (December 5, 2019). "Writers Guild Unveils 2020 TV Award Nominees". Variety. Archived from the original on December 5, 2019. Retrieved December 5, 2019.

^ Beresford, Trilby; Crist, Allison; Chuba, Kirsten; Lewis, Hilary (February 1, 2020). "WGA Awards: 'Parasite' and 'JoJo Rabbit' Among Film Winners". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 10, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ a b Brow, Jason; Swan, Allison (October 8, 2019). "Aaron Paul Reveals Whether Or Not He Thinks There Will Be More 'Breaking Bad' To Come After 'El Camino'". Hollywood Life. Archived from the original on January 25, 2022. Retrieved March 28, 2022.

^ Samadder, Rhik (October 6, 2019). "Aaron Paul: 'Breaking Bad changed my life'". The Guardian. Archived from the original on July 29, 2021. Retrieved August 3, 2021.

^ a b Schneider, Michael (August 8, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Co-Creator Vince Gilligan on Kim's Brush With 'Breaking Bad' and Setting the Finale Stage". Variety. Archived from the original on August 9, 2022. Retrieved August 9, 2022.

^ Moreau, Jordan (August 1, 2022). "How 'Better Caul Saul' Brought Back [SPOILERS] and Why the Director Didn't De-Age Them". Variety. Archived from the original on August 2, 2022. Retrieved August 2, 2022.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (August 8, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Recap: Better Call Kim". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on August 9, 2022. Retrieved August 9, 2022.

^ Davids, Brian (August 19, 2022). "Aaron Paul Bids Farewell to Jesse Pinkman and Explains Why He Can't Watch His 'Westworld' Showcase Episode". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 19, 2022. Retrieved August 19, 2022.


External links[edit]
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie at IMDb 
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie on Netflix 
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie at AllMovie
Awards for El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
vteCritics' Choice Television Award for Best Limited Series or MovieMovie or Miniseries  (2011–2013, 2016)
Sherlock (2012)
Behind the Candelabra (2013)
Fargo, season 2 (2016)
The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story (2016)
Movie  (2014–2015, 2017–present)
The Normal Heart (2014)
Bessie (2015)
The Wizard of Lies (2017)
Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert (2018)
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019)
Hamilton (2020)
Oslo (2021)
Weird: The Al Yankovic Story (2022)
Quiz Lady (2023)
Limited Series  (2014–2015, 2017–present)
Fargo (season 1) (2014)
Olive Kitteridge (2015)
Big Little Lies (2017)
The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story (2018)
When They See Us (2019)
The Queen's Gambit (2020)
Mare of Easttown (2021)
The Dropout (2022)
Beef (2023)

vteSatellite Award for Best Television Film1999–2010
Strange Justice (1999)
Harlan County War (2000)
The Day Reagan Was Shot (2001)
Door to Door (2002)
Rudy: The Rudy Giuliani Story (2003)
Redemption: The Stan Tookie Williams Story (2004)
Reefer Madness (2005)
A Little Thing Called Murder (2006)
Mitch Albom's For One More Day (2007)
Filth: The Mary Whitehouse Story (2008)
Grey Gardens (2009)
Temple Grandin (2010)
2014–2015
Return to Zero (2014)
Stockholm, Pennsylvania (2015)
2017–2022
The Wizard of Lies (2017)
The Tale (2018)
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019)
The Clark Sisters: First Ladies of Gospel (2020)
Oslo (2021)
Weird: The Al Yankovic Story (2022)
Between 1996–1998, 2011–2013, 2016 and 2023–present, the category was merged with Best Miniseries and Limited Series
or Television Film.
vteBreaking BadEpisodesSeason 1
"Pilot"
"Cat's in the Bag..."
"...And the Bag's in the River"
"Cancer Man"
"Gray Matter"
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"
Season 2
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
"Grilled"
"Bit by a Dead Bee"
"Down"
"Breakage"
"Peekaboo"
"Negro y Azul"
"Better Call Saul"
"4 Days Out"
"Over"
"Mandala"
"Phoenix"
"ABQ"
Season 3
"No Más"
"Caballo sin Nombre"
"I.F.T."
"Green Light"
"Más"
"Sunset"
"One Minute"
"I See You"
"Kafkaesque"
"Fly"
"Abiquiu"
"Half Measures"
"Full Measure"
Season 4
"Box Cutter"
"Thirty-Eight Snub"
"Open House"
"Bullet Points"
"Shotgun"
"Cornered"
"Problem Dog"
"Hermanos"
"Bug"
"Salud"
"Crawl Space"
"End Times"
"Face Off"
Season 5Part 1
"Live Free or Die"
"Madrigal"
"Hazard Pay"
"Fifty-One"
"Dead Freight"
"Buyout"
"Say My Name"
"Gliding Over All"
Part 2
"Blood Money"
"Buried"
"Confessions"
"Rabid Dog"
"To'hajiilee"
"Ozymandias"
"Granite State"
"Felina"
Characters
Walter White
Skyler White
Jesse Pinkman
Hank Schrader
Marie Schrader
Walter White Jr.
Saul Goodman
Gus Fring
Mike Ehrmantraut
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Better Call Saul
"Breaking Bad"
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Metástasis
Talking Bad
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Baby Blue"
Faking Bad
Spiralix heisenbergi
"What Animated Women Want"
"Pickle Rick"
"Plug Walk"
"Celebrity Booze: The Ultimate Cash Grab"

 Category
 WikiQuote
 WikiCommons

vteBetter Call SaulEpisodesSeason 1
"Uno"
"Mijo"
"Nacho"
"Hero"
"Alpine Shepherd Boy"
"Five-O"
"Bingo"
"RICO"
"Pimento"
"Marco"
Season 2
"Switch"
"Cobbler"
"Amarillo"
"Gloves Off"
"Rebecca"
"Bali Ha'i"
"Inflatable"
"Fifi"
"Nailed"
"Klick"
Season 3
"Mabel"
"Witness"
"Sunk Costs"
"Sabrosito"
"Chicanery"
"Off Brand"
"Expenses"
"Slip"
"Fall"
"Lantern"
Season 4
"Smoke"
"Breathe"
"Something Beautiful"
"Talk"
"Quite a Ride"
"Piñata"
"Something Stupid"
"Coushatta"
"Wiedersehen"
"Winner"
Season 5
"Magic Man"
"50% Off"
"The Guy for This"
"Namaste"
"Dedicado a Max"
"Wexler v. Goodman"
"JMM"
"Bagman"
"Bad Choice Road"
"Something Unforgivable"
Season 6Part 1
"Wine and Roses"
"Carrot and Stick"
"Rock and Hard Place"
"Hit and Run"
"Black and Blue"
"Axe and Grind"
"Plan and Execution"
Part 2
"Point and Shoot"
"Fun and Games"
"Nippy"
"Breaking Bad"
"Waterworks"
"Saul Gone"
Characters
Jimmy McGill
Mike Ehrmantraut
Kim Wexler
Chuck McGill
Howard Hamlin
Nacho Varga
Gus Fring
Lalo Salamanca
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Breaking Bad ("Better Call Saul")
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Talking Saul
Slippin' Jimmy
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Address Unknown"

 Category





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=El_Camino:_A_Breaking_Bad_Movie&oldid=1224673220"

Neo-Western crime drama franchise


Breaking BadCreated byVince GilliganOriginal workBreaking Bad (2008–2013)OwnerSony Pictures Television (Sony Pictures Entertainment)Years2008–2022Films and televisionFilm(s)El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019)Television series
Breaking Bad (2008–2013)
Better Call Saul (2015–2022)
GamesVideo game(s)Breaking Bad: Criminal Elements (2019)AudioOriginal music
"Negro y Azul" by Los Cuates de Sinaloa
Dave Porter
Little Barrie
MiscellaneousTalk shows
Talking Bad (2013)
Talking Saul (2016–2022)
Animated short-form series
Slippin' Jimmy (2022)
Adaptations
Metástasis (2014)
Faking Bad (2018)

Breaking Bad is an American neo-Western crime media franchise created by Vince Gilligan, primarily based on the two television series Breaking Bad (2008–2013) and Better Call Saul (2015–2022), and the film El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019).[1][2][3][4][5] The fictional universe is sometimes informally referred to as the "Gilliverse".[6][7]
Breaking Bad revolves around chemistry teacher turned-methamphetamine drug lord Walter White (Bryan Cranston) and his former student and fellow crook Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul). Better Call Saul, the prequel / sequel series, follows the origins and eventual fate of criminal lawyer Jimmy McGill / Saul Goodman (Bob Odenkirk), whom Walter and Jesse eventually hire in Breaking Bad. El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, the sequel film, concludes the story of Jesse, now a fugitive, after the events of Breaking Bad.[8] Gilligan said he felt the three works can be seen independently from one another, but exist in the same framework and need to be viewed together to receive the full experience.[9]
The two television series and the film are set in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and give a modernized twist to Westerns set in the region.[10][11] Each of the three entries were produced at Albuquerque Studios and emboldened success for the media in the city and film in the state.[12][13][14] Both series originally aired on AMC, while the film premiered on Netflix, on which the two television series aired internationally (outside of United States).[15][16] The franchise is owned by Sony Pictures Television and received strong critical acclaim; numerous awards were given to Breaking Bad, to Better Call Saul, and to El Camino.[17]
The Breaking Bad franchise has since expanded across several different mediums and multimedia platforms, with varying degrees of contributions from its cast and crew. This includes the talk shows Talking Bad (2013) and Talking Saul (2016–2022), the Spanish-language adaptation Metástasis (2014),  the parody musical Faking Bad (2018), and the animated short-form series Slippin' Jimmy (2022).


Television series[edit]
SeriesSeasonEpisodesOriginally releasedShowrunner(s)First releasedLast releasedNetworkBreaking Bad17January 20, 2008 (2008-01-20)March 9, 2008 (2008-03-09)AMCVince Gilligan[18]213March 8, 2009 (2009-03-08)May 31, 2009 (2009-05-31)313March 21, 2010 (2010-03-21)June 13, 2010 (2010-06-13)413July 17, 2011 (2011-07-17)October 9, 2011 (2011-10-09)5168July 15, 2012 (2012-07-15)September 2, 2012 (2012-09-02)8August 11, 2013 (2013-08-11)September 29, 2013 (2013-09-29)
Better Call Saul110February 8, 2015 (2015-02-08)April 6, 2015 (2015-04-06)Vince Gilligan[19]Peter Gould[19]210February 15, 2016 (2016-02-15)April 18, 2016 (2016-04-18)310April 10, 2017 (2017-04-10)June 19, 2017 (2017-06-19)410August 6, 2018 (2018-08-06)October 8, 2018 (2018-10-08)Peter Gould[20][21]510February 23, 2020 (2020-02-23)April 20, 2020 (2020-04-20)6137April 18, 2022 (2022-04-18)May 23, 2022 (2022-05-23)6July 11, 2022 (2022-07-11)August 15, 2022 (2022-08-15)
Breaking Bad (2008–2013)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad
Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan and actors Aaron Paul and Bryan Cranston
Breaking Bad tells the story of Walter White (Bryan Cranston), an underpaid, overqualified, and dispirited high-school chemistry teacher in Albuquerque, New Mexico. After being diagnosed with stage-three lung cancer, he enlists the help of his former chemistry student, Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul), to produce and distribute crystal meth to secure his family's financial future.[22] He tries to leave the drug-making business but continues to be drawn into the criminal underworld, and soon becomes a major drug kingpin under the name "Heisenberg" which he continues to hide from his family and friends.
Among the show's co-stars are Anna Gunn and RJ Mitte as Walter's wife Skyler and son Walter Jr., and Betsy Brandt and Dean Norris as Skyler's sister Marie Schrader and her husband Hank, a DEA agent. Others include Bob Odenkirk as Walter's and Jesse's lawyer Saul Goodman, Jonathan Banks as private investigator and fixer Mike Ehrmantraut, and Giancarlo Esposito as drug kingpin Gus Fring. The final season introduces Jesse Plemons as the criminally ambitious Todd Alquist, and Laura Fraser as Lydia Rodarte-Quayle, a cunning business executive secretly managing Walter's global meth sales for her company.
Breaking Bad was created by Vince Gilligan, who had spent several years writing the Fox series The X-Files. Gilligan wanted to create a series in which the protagonist became the antagonist.[18] He added that his goal with Walter White was to turn him from Mr. Chips into Scarface.[22]
The show aired on AMC from January 20, 2008, to September 29, 2013, consisting of five seasons for a total of 62 episodes.[23] Breaking Bad received widespread acclaim and has been praised by many critics as one of the greatest television shows of all time.[24] The series would receive a total of sixteen Emmy Awards throughout its run.[25]

Better Call Saul (2015–2022)[edit]
Main article: Better Call Saul
Better Call Saul cast members Bob Odenkirk, Rhea Seehorn, Patrick Fabian, Michael Mando and Giancarlo Esposito
Better Call Saul focuses on Saul Goodman's life, six years before he became Walter's lawyer, as Jimmy McGill, a more earnest lawyer trying to turn away from his troublesome con-man days. The show also features segments and eventually full episodes centering on Goodman's fate after the events of Breaking Bad.[26]
Bob Odenkirk would reprise the titular role for the spin-off. Additionally, Jonathan Banks and Giancarlo Esposito star and reprise their roles as Mike Ehrmantraut and Gus Fring, respectively, while several other Breaking Bad cast members have guest-starred on the show. Newcomers to the starring cast of Better Call Saul include Rhea Seehorn as Jimmy's love interest and fellow attorney Kim Wexler, Michael McKean as Jimmy's older brother Chuck McGill, Patrick Fabian as Jimmy's rival attorney Howard Hamlin, Michael Mando as the cunning criminal Nacho Varga, and Tony Dalton as Lalo Salamanca, the charismatic enforcer who later helps run his family's drug business.
Saul Goodman was originally to appear in Breaking Bad in four episodes within the show's second season, but became a main character through the rest of the show's run in part due to the strength of Odenkirk's acting abilities.[27][28] Odenkirk, Vince Gilligan, and Peter Gould, who wrote the episode that introduced Goodman, started discussions near the end of Breaking Bad of a possible spin-off expanding on the character. They eventually settled on the idea of a prequel to show the origins of Saul about six years prior to the events of Breaking Bad.[29] In April 2013, AMC and Sony Pictures Television expressed interest in Gilligan and Gould's spin-off series concept,[30] and they officially ordered Better Call Saul on September 11, 2013.[31]
The show aired on AMC from February 8, 2015, to August 15, 2022, consisting of six seasons for a total of 63 episodes.[23] Better Call Saul has received similar critical praise as Breaking Bad, with some even deeming it superior to its predecessor.[32] It is considered as a prime example of how to produce a spinoff work that defies the usual expectations of such forms.[33]

Film[edit]
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019)[edit]
Main article: El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie follows the events of Breaking Bad's series finale "Felina", as Jesse Pinkman searches for his freedom. Aaron Paul reprised the role of Jesse after a six-year absence, and several other Breaking Bad characters would make appearances.[8][34]
Vince Gilligan wrote, directed and produced the film. While writing "Felina", Gilligan asked himself what happened to Jesse after the events of the series.[9] Near the tenth anniversary of Breaking Bad's premiere, Gilligan started sharing the idea of creating a sequel film based on this concept.[35] Paul, who portrayed Jesse on the series and who still felt attached to the character, expressed eagerness to be involved with any idea for a Breaking Bad continuation.[8] When Gilligan made his initial film pitch to Sony Pictures Television, the executives in the room quickly agreed to come on board. After completing the script, Gilligan selectively shopped the film to a few potential distributors, settling on Netflix and AMC due to their history with the show.[35]
The sequel film was formally announced in February 2019.[8] It was released exclusively on Netflix on October 11, 2019, and was broadcast on AMC on February 16, 2020.[36] Critics praised Gilligan's direction and Paul's performance, but gave a mixed consensus regarding the film's necessity to Breaking Bad's chronology.[37][38]

Web series[edit]
Breaking Bad: Original Minisodes (2009–2011)[edit]
Main article: List of Breaking Bad episodes § Breaking Bad: Original Minisodes (2009–2011)
Breaking Bad: Original Minisodes is a web series based on the television series Breaking Bad. A total of 17 "minisodes", which are more comedy-oriented than most full episodes, were released over the course of three years.[39]

Better Call Saul Employee Training (2017–2022)[edit]
See also: Los Pollos Hermanos Employee Training, Madrigal Electromotive Security Training, Ethics Training with Kim Wexler, and Filmmaker Training
From 2017 to 2022, AMC released four separate short series that feature a mix of live action and animated segments in conjunction with the last four seasons of Better Call Saul. Season three featured Los Pollos Hermanos Employee Training with Esposito portraying Gus Fring, season four featured Madrigal Electromotive Security Training with Mike Ehrmantraut with Banks as Mike, season five featured Ethics Training with Kim Wexler with Seehorn as Kim and side-voiceovers from Odenkirk as Jimmy and Patrick Fabian as Howard, and season six featured Filmmaker Training with the film crew that helped Jimmy make his advertisements. These were released over the course of each season on YouTube and through AMC's social media. The first three series consisted of ten episodes, while the last consisted of six.[40][41]
Both Los Pollos Hermanos Employee Training and Ethics Training with Kim Wexler received the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Short Form Comedy or Drama Series.[42][43] Madrigal Electromotive Security Training with Mike Ehrmantraut was initially nominated for the same award, while Jonathan Banks was initially nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Actor in a Short Form Comedy or Drama Series but the academy had to pull the nominations after discovering the episodes were shorter than the category's required runtime.[44] Filmmaker Training would also be nominated for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Short Form Comedy, Drama or Variety Series.[45]

Slippin' Jimmy (2022)[edit]
Main article: Slippin' Jimmy
Variety reported in March 2021 that AMC was developing a spin-off animated series, Slippin' Jimmy.[46] The series, a prequel based on younger Jimmy and Chuck's time in Cicero, Illinois, was developed by Ariel Levine and Kathleen Williams-Foshee, who previously worked on the associated live-action Better Call Saul Employee Training (2017–2022). Voice actors include Chi McBride, Laraine Newman, and Sean Giambrone as Jimmy.[47]
Slippin' Jimmy was later revealed as a short-form web series; a six-part animated series to be released online during the sixth season of Better Call Saul. Told in the style of classic 1970s-era cartoons, each episode is an ode to a specific movie genre — from Spaghetti Westerns and Buster Keaton to The Exorcist. The series was produced by Rick and Morty animators Starburns and written by Levine and Williams-Foshee.[48] Six episodes, each around 8–9 minutes in length, were released on AMC+ on May 23, 2022.[49]

Short films[edit]
Chicks 'N' Guns (2013)[edit]
Main article: Chicks 'N' Guns
In 2013, an eight-minute bonus scene titled Chicks 'N' Guns was included with Breaking Bad's fifth season DVD and Blu-ray sets.[50] Written by Jenn Carroll and Gordon Smith and directed by Michelle MacLaren, the scene offers a backstory on how Jesse Pinkman obtained the gun seen in the episode "Gliding Over All". Sony Pictures released a behind-the-scenes featurette discussing the scene on its YouTube channel.[51]

No Picnic (2017)[edit]
Main article: Better Call Saul (season 3) § No Picnic
On June 19, 2017, the night of Better Call Saul's third season finale, fans were able to access the three-minute short film No Picnic, which feature the characters Betsy and Craig Kettleman, who had not been seen since the first season. The short, directed by Saul associate producer Jenn Carroll and written by the show's writers' assistant Ariel Levine, shows the Kettleman family organizing a picnic close to family patriarch Craig, who is seen picking up roadside litter with his fellow inmates as part of his prison sentence.[52]

Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short (2020)[edit]
Main article: Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short
In conjunction with the television premiere of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie on AMC, the network released a three-minute short film Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short on its official YouTube account on February 17, 2020.[53]

American Greed: James McGill (2022)[edit]
Main article: American Greed: James McGill
In April 2022, a few weeks before Better Call Saul's  sixth season premiere, the CNBC Prime YouTube account uploaded American Greed: James McGill.[54] Written by Peter Gould's assistant Valerie Chu, the ten-minute short was a mockumentary done in the style of the documentary series American Greed. It featured interviews of several recurring Better Call Saul characters recounting their memories of Jimmy McGill and Kim Wexler.[55]

Breaking Good (2023)[edit]
On February 12, 2023, a commercial for PopCorners chips aired during Super Bowl LVII. Titled Breaking Good, the short was filmed in a desert past Lancaster, California. It was directed by Vince Gilligan and featured Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, and Raymond Cruz reprising their roles as Walter White, Jesse Pinkman, and Tuco Salamanca, respectively.[56]

Adaptations[edit]
Metástasis (2014)[edit]
Main article: Metástasis
On March 13, 2013, after several days of speculation fueled by Univision,[57] Sony confirmed that it would be making a Spanish-language remake of Breaking Bad titled Metástasis starring Diego Trujillo as Walter Blanco (Walter White) and Roberto Urbina as José Miguel Rosas (Jesse Pinkman), alongside Sandra Reyes and Julián Arango in unnamed roles.[58] On October 2, 2013, the cast list was revealed to include Reyes as Cielo Blanco (Skyler White) and Arango as Henry Navarro (Hank Schrader), and that the show would be set in Colombia.[59] The equivalent of Saul Goodman is named Saúl Bueno.[60]
The series ran from June 8, 2014, to September 18, 2014, airing a total of 62 episodes.[61][62]

Untitled South Korean remake[edit]
On February 14, 2023, it was reported by The Hankyoreh that Breaking Bad would be remade in South Korea.[63] The production company JP E&M will be producing the series which will be aired on an OTT streaming platform for four seasons. The first season is planned to be aired in early 2024 and it will be directed by Lee Chang-yeol.[64]

Recurring cast and characters[edit]
Further information: List of characters in the Breaking Bad franchise

List indicator(s)
This section includes characters who will appear or have appeared in multiple Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul media.

An empty, dark grey cell indicates the character was not in the media, or that the character's official presence has not yet been confirmed.
 E indicates an appearance not included in the theatrical cut.
 R indicates a recurring role in the media.
 V indicates a voice-only role.
 Y indicates a younger version of the character.



Character

Television series

Film

Web series

Short films

Adaptations


Breaking Bad

Better Call Saul

El Camino

Employee Training

Slippin' Jimmy

Chicks 'N' Guns

No Picnic

Snow Globe

American Greed

Breaking Good

Metástasis


2008–2013

2015–2022

2019

2017–2022

2022

2013

2017

2020

2022

2023

2014



Main characters[edit]


Walter WhiteHeisenberg

Bryan Cranston



Pictured

Bryan Cranston

Diego Trujillo


Jesse Pinkman

Aaron Paul



Aaron Paul



Aaron Paul

Roberto Urbina


Henry "Hank" Schrader

Dean Norris





Julián Arango


Marie Schrader

Betsy Brandt



Constanza Camelo


Skyler White

Anna Gunn



Sandra Reyes


Walter "Flynn" White Jr.

RJ Mitte



Diego Garzon Flores


Gustavo "Gus" FringThe Chicken Man

Giancarlo Esposito



Giancarlo Esposito



Manuel Gómez


James "Jimmy" McGillSaul Goodman

Bob Odenkirk



Bob Odenkirk

Sean Giambrone

Bob Odenkirk



Pictured



Luis Eduardo Arango


Michael "Mike" Ehrmantraut

Jonathan Banks



Edgardo Román


Todd Alquist

Jesse Plemons



Jesse Plemons



Jesse Plemons



Pedro Calderón


Lydia Rodarte-Quayle

Laura Fraser



Laura FraserV



Lidia Barrera


Kimberly "Kim" Wexler



Rhea Seehorn



Rhea Seehorn



Pictured




Howard Hamlin



Patrick Fabian



Patrick Fabian




Ignacio "Nacho" Varga



Michael Mando



Pictured




Charles "Chuck" McGill



Michael McKean



Silent






Eduardo "Lalo" Salamanca



Tony Dalton







Recurring characters[edit]


Ed Galbraith

Robert Forster






Austin Ramey

Todd Terry






Skinny Pete

Charles Baker



Charles Baker



Charles Baker



Jairo Ordóñez


Brandon "Badger" Mayhew

Matt L. Jones



Matt L. Jones



Héctor Mejía


Diane Pinkman

Tess Harper



Tess Harper






Adam Pinkman

Michael Bofshever



Michael Bofshever






Jane Margolis

Krysten Ritter



Krysten Ritter



Julieth Restrepo


Old Joe

Larry Hankin



Larry Hankin






Kenny

Kevin Rankin



Kevin Rankin






Steven Gomez

Steven Michael Quezada



Pictured



Julio Pachón


Tuco Salamanca

Raymond Cruz



Raymond Cruz

Damián Alcázar


Hector Salamanca

Mark Margolis



Frank Ramírez


Gonzo

Jesus Payan Jr.






No-Doze

Cesar Garcia






Domingo "Krazy-8" Molina

Max Arciniega






Emilio Koyama

John Koyama






Spooge

David Ury






Gale Boetticher

David Costabile



Matías Maldonado


Victor

Jeremiah Bitsui






Juan Bolsa

Javier Grajeda






Kaylee Ehrmantraut

Various






Leonel Salamanca

Daniel Moncada






Marco Salamanca

Luis Moncada






Huell Babineaux

Lavell Crawford



Mauricio Cújar


Francesca Liddy

Tina Parker



Pictured



Constanza Hernández


Tyrus Kitt

Ray Campbell






Eladio Vuente

Steven Bauer






Nick

Eric Steining






Tim Roberts

Nigel Gibbs






Wendy

Julia Minesci






Officer Saxton

Stoney Westmoreland






Barry Goodman

JB Blanc






Stephanie Doswell

Jennifer Hasty






Peter Schuler

Norbert Weisser






Stacey Ehrmantraut

Stand-in

Kerry Condon



Stand-in


Betsy Kettleman



Julie Ann Emery



Julie Ann Emery



Julie Ann Emery




Craig Kettleman



Jeremy Shamos



Jeremy Shamos



Jeremy Shamos




Marco Pasternak



Mel Rodriguez



Kyle S. More




Clarence



David Mattey




Suzanne Ericsen



Julie Pearl



Julie Pearl




Other media[edit]
Prior to the start of production of the fifth season, Jeffrey Katzenberg had approached the series' creators and offered them to produce three additional episodes at US$25 million a piece compared to the normal US$3.5 million cost of each episode, as to create material for his future streaming platform, Quibi. The episodes would have been broken up into 5 to 10 minute chapters as to fit Quibi's micro-format. The Breaking Bad team turned down this offer, chiefly as there was not much material they could continue into these episodes.[65]

Docuseries[edit]
The Broken and the Bad (2020)[edit]
In June 2020, AMC announced The Broken and the Bad, a six-part true crime short-form docuseries inspired by Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul. The miniseries explored real-world stories and situations that mirrored the fictional worlds of both shows.[66] Episode subjects included the psychology of con artists and hit men, the economics of massive drug operations, as well as a town in the United States that catered to those who suffered from electromagnetic hypersensitivity, a condition that Better Call Saul character Chuck McGill believed afflicted him. The miniseries was hosted by Giancarlo Esposito and premiered on the AMC app and AMC.com on July 9, 2020.[67]

Talk shows[edit]
Talking Bad (2013)[edit]
Main article: Talking Bad
From August 11, 2013, to September 29, 2013, eight episodes of the live talk show, Talking Bad, aired on AMC, following Breaking Bad. The host, Chris Hardwick, and guests—who included celebrity fans, cast members, and Breaking Bad crew members—discussed episodes that aired immediately preceding the talk show. Talking Bad was inspired by the success of Talking Dead (also hosted by Hardwick), which airs immediately following new episodes of The Walking Dead, and the talk shows share a similar logo and theme music.[68]

Talking Saul (2016–2022)[edit]
Main article: Talking Saul
From February 15, 2016, to August 8, 2022, six episodes of the live talk show, Talking Saul, aired on AMC, following Better Call Saul. The host, Chris Hardwick, and guests—who included celebrity fans, cast members, and Better Call Saul crew members—discussed episodes that aired immediately preceding the talk show. Talking Saul was inspired by the success of Talking Dead and Talking Bad (both of which were also hosted by Hardwick).

Podcasts[edit]
Breaking Bad Insider Podcast (2009–2013)[edit]
The Breaking Bad Insider Podcast is a pre-recorded series where series creator Vince Gilligan and editor Kelley Dixon host a weekly conversation with the cast and crew of Breaking Bad to discuss the newest episode. The podcast began during the first episode of the second season.[69]

Better Call Saul Insider Podcast (2015–2022)[edit]
The Better Call Saul Insider Podcast is a pre-recorded series which the creators gather to discuss the episode recently broadcast. Originally started as part of the Breaking Bad series, the podcast discusses the production of the show and features actors discussing their decisions and process of the characters they play. The crew also details their methods in deciding how an episode was shot. The show routinely includes the major cast, director and camera crew of the respective episodes.[70]

Comics[edit]
Breaking Bad: All Bad Things (2013)[edit]
AMC released the digital comic book Breaking Bad: All Bad Things in August 2013. The comic "recaps the first four-and-a-half seasons of Walter White's descent from mild-mannered chemistry teacher to drug kingpin".[71][72]

Better Call Saul: Client Development (2015)[edit]
In February 2015, in advance of the series premiere, AMC released its first digital comic book for Better Call Saul. Titled Better Call Saul: Client Development, it details the history of Saul Goodman and Mike Ehrmantraut alongside how they find out Mr. Mayhew is Walter White.[73][74] This would later be retconned by the Better Call Saul episode "Breaking Bad".[75]

Better Call Saul: Saul Goodman and the Justice Consortium in the Clutches of the Judgernaut! (2016)[edit]
In February 2016, in advance of the second-season premiere, AMC released Better Call Saul: Saul Goodman and the Justice Consortium in the Clutches of the Judgernaut![76]

Video games[edit]
Gilligan has stated interest in production of video games based on the Breaking Bad franchise, though he does not want the result to be a bad game such as the infamous E.T. the Extra-terrestrial. One idea he had was to have a game similar to the Grand Theft Auto series.[77]

Breaking Bad: Criminal Elements (2019)[edit]
Breaking Bad: Criminal Elements was a strategy mobile video game developed by Plamee and published by FTX Games. It was released for iOS and Android on June 6, 2019. The players were tasked with building their own drug empire under the wing of Walter White and Jesse Pinkman.[78]
The game was announced in January 2019,[79] and was developed with close collaboration with the creators of the show so that it would feel accurate.[80] Criminal Elements was loosely based on a previous attempt to bring a Breaking Bad mobile game to the market, Breaking Bad: Empire Business.[81] The game received lukewarm reviews and was closed in September 2020.[82]

Fan works[edit]
Breaking Bad – Ozymandias (2013)[edit]
In October 2013, New York composer Sung Jin Hong announced his intentions to create an opera inspired by the Breaking Bad episode "Ozymandias".[83] The mini-opera, titled Breaking Bad – Ozymandias, premiered on January 26, 2014. The opera incorporates themes from both the Percy Bysshe Shelley's sonnet "Ozymandias" as well as the episode that shares the same name.[84]

Breaking Bad: The Movie (2017)[edit]
In 2017, French editors Lucas Stoll and Gaylor Morestin created a fan edit, simply titled Breaking Bad: The Movie, condensing the entire series into a two-hour feature film and uploaded it onto Vimeo. They had worked on the film for around two years prior to its release.[85][86] However the film was soon taken down for copyright violation.[87][88][89] Critic Alan Sepinwall remarked that the movie "doesn't in any way work as a standalone entity."[90] In order to achieve feature film length, notable side characters like Tuco Salamanca and the Salamanca Cousins were cut entirely, and the conclusion to the Gustavo Fring story occurred off-screen.[90]

Faking Bad (2019)[edit]
Main article: Faking Bad (musical)
Faking Bad is a 2019 parody musical with music, lyrics and book by Rob Gathercole based on AMC's Breaking Bad created by Vince Gilligan. The musical condenses the entire plot of Breaking Bad down to a one-act play that was under two hours with a heightened sense of camp and satire.[91] A physical release of the cast recording was available for sale at the official Breaking Bad Store in Albuquerque, New Mexico.[92]

Future[edit]
Near the end of Better Call Saul's broadcast run in August 2022, Vince Gilligan said that he does not plan to create any more works in the Breaking Bad franchise, as he cannot expect any further installments to be critically successful. He said "I think I'm starting to sense you've got to know when to leave the party, you don't want to be the guy with a lampshade on your head."[93] Peter Gould later acknowledged that by the premiere of Breaking Bad's finale, he and Gilligan were already working on the spin-off, but when Better Call Saul's finale aired the two were working separately on new projects.[94]
Despite this, Giancarlo Esposito, who portrays Gus Fring, stated that "Gustavo Fring isn't done," expressing interest in a "show that would reflect Gustavo's past [and] to play the vision in my mind that inspired and informed the Gus you see but don't know. I would like you to know that Gus. It's intriguing to know where he came from," although admitting it would be up to Gilligan and his team and partners, with whom he had discussed the concept of such a series in the past.[95] As of September 2022 Esposito has continued to express interest in the project, tentatively entitled "The Rise of Gus", describing it as a "yearning inside" him.[96]
Gould would later say that he would consider other entries at some point in the future. He stated "Vince [Gilligan] and I both decided it would be good to give the Gilliverse a little bit of a rest, but we had a big board with ideas or scenes we were interested in or would be fun — and there were a lot of them still on that board when we finished up the show. Maybe that's a good thing, though. You want to leave something you didn't get to."[97]

References[edit]


^ Andreeva, Nellie (July 12, 2021). "Vince Gilligan Inks New Four-Year Overall Deal With Sony Pictures Television". Deadline. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ Hedash, Kara (February 17, 2020). "Breaking Bad Timeline Explained: When The Shows & Movie All Take Place". ScreenRant. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ Fisher, Kieran (April 12, 2022). "Will There Be Any More Breaking Bad Spin-Offs After Better Call Saul Ends?". Looper.com. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ Dick, Jeremy (June 19, 2022). "AMC Wants Another Breaking Bad Show After Better Call Saul Ends". MovieWeb. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ "How 'Better Call Saul' Keeps an Entire Franchise in Demand - Charts". TheWrap. April 25, 2022. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ Grobar, Matt (August 18, 2020). "'Better Call Saul' EP Melissa Bernstein On 'Legal Ethics' Short-Form Series, "Sewing Up" Saul Goodman's Story & Getting "Complicated Show" Back On Set Amidst Pandemic". Deadline Hollywood. Retrieved May 21, 2022.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (August 14, 2018). "'Better Call Saul' Recap: Chicken a la Kingpin". Rolling Stone. Retrieved October 18, 2022.

^ a b c d Itzkoff, Dave (August 24, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Movie, Starring Aaron Paul, Coming to Netflix in October". The New York Times. Archived from the original on August 24, 2019. Retrieved August 24, 2019.

^ a b Sepinwall, Alan (October 15, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Creator Vince Gilligan on 'El Camino' and Rooting for Jesse Pinkman". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ Bernhardt, Mark (April 3, 2019). "History's Ghost Haunting Vince Gilligan's New Mexico: Genre, Myth, and the New Western History inBreaking Bad". Journal of Popular Film and Television. 47 (2). Informa UK Limited: 66–80. doi:10.1080/01956051.2018.1512948. ISSN 0195-6051. S2CID 199222100.

^ ""Breaking Bad" as a Modern Western: Revising Frontier Myths of Masculinity, Savagery, and Empire". ProQuest. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ ""Breaking Bad" spinoff "Better Call Saul" to be filmed in Albuquerque". CBS News. May 15, 2014. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ "'Breaking Bad' brings tourists to Albuquerque". Fox News. Associated Press. March 15, 2013. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ Zollner, Amelia (July 11, 2022). "Albuquerque Erecting Statues of Walter White And Jesse Pinkman". IGN. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ Andreeva, Nellie (August 15, 2011). "DONE: AMC & Sony TV Reach Deal For 16-Episode Final Order Of 'Breaking Bad'". Deadline. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ Bloom, Madison (August 24, 2019). ""Breaking Bad" Film Coming to Netflix, Trailer Shared: Watch". Pitchfork. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ "Breaking Bad". Sony Pictures Museum. Retrieved July 21, 2022.

^ a b Klosterman, Chuck (July 12, 2011). "Bad Decisions". Grantland. Archived from the original on November 14, 2013. Retrieved July 17, 2011.

^ a b Kondolojy, Amanda (June 19, 2014). "'Better Call Saul' Renewed for Second Season by AMC; First Season Pushed Back to 2015". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on June 22, 2014. Retrieved June 19, 2014.

^ Birnbaum, Debra (April 5, 2017). "'Better Call Saul's' 'Breaking' Point: How It's Gearing Up for Gus Fring". Variety. Archived from the original on July 22, 2020. Retrieved February 16, 2022.

^ Bergeson, Samantha (March 10, 2022). "'Breaking Bad' Season 6 Trailer: Bob Odenkirk Succumbs to a Wicked Path in the Series' Final Bow". IndieWire. Archived from the original on March 13, 2022. Retrieved August 16, 2022.

^ a b Goodman, Tim (July 13, 2011). "'Breaking Bad': Dark Side of the Dream". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 28, 2019. Retrieved July 17, 2011.

^ a b Porter, Rick (January 16, 2020). "'Better Call Saul' Ending With Season 6 on AMC". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on January 17, 2020. Retrieved January 16, 2020.

^ Sources that refer to Breaking Bad being praised as one of the greatest television shows of all time include:
Moore, Frazier (December 18, 2013). "2013 brought surprises, good and bad, to viewers". Associated Press. Archived from the original on December 24, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
St. John, Allen (September 16, 2013). "Why 'Breaking Bad' Is The Best Show Ever And Why That Matters". Forbes. Archived from the original on December 26, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
Bianculli, David (December 23, 2013). "Great New DVD Box Sets: Blasts From The Past And 'Breaking Bad'". NPR.org. NPR. Archived from the original on December 23, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
"2013's 10 Best and Worst TV Shows, From Good 'Breaking Bad' to Bad 'Broke Girls'". Yahoo TV. December 19, 2013. Archived from the original on February 12, 2021. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
Hickey, Walter (September 29, 2013). "Breaking Bad Is The Greatest Show Ever Made". Business Insider. Archived from the original on December 24, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
Lawson, Richard (July 13, 2012). "The Case for 'Breaking Bad' as Television's Best Show". The Wire. Archived from the original on December 24, 2013. Retrieved December 24, 2013.
Ryan, Maureen (July 11, 2012). "'Breaking Bad': Five Reasons It's One of TV's All-Time Greats". The Huffington Post. Archived from the original on September 21, 2013. Retrieved July 15, 2013.

^ Agard, Chancellor (September 9, 2017). "How many Emmys did Breaking Bad win?". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 30, 2021. Retrieved November 2, 2021.

^ Cornet, Roth (September 11, 2013). "Breaking Bad Spinoff Series Better Call Saul Confirmed". IGN. Archived from the original on September 13, 2013. Retrieved September 11, 2013.

^ Saporito, Jeff. "How has Bob Odenkirk interpreted and evolved his "Better Call Saul" character after "Breaking Bad"?". ScreenPrism. Archived from the original on April 19, 2017. Retrieved April 19, 2017.

^ Todd vanDerWerff, Emily (February 3, 2015). "Better Call Saul's Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould on constructing the Breaking Bad spinoff". Vox. Archived from the original on April 7, 2020. Retrieved March 9, 2020.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (August 3, 2018). "A Candid Conversation With Vince Gilligan on 'Better Call Saul'". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on April 1, 2020. Retrieved February 29, 2020.

^ Andreeva, Nellie (April 9, 2013). "AMC Eyes 'Breaking Bad' Spinoff Toplined by Bob Odenkirk". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on June 19, 2014. Retrieved April 9, 2013.

^ Roots, Kimberly (September 11, 2013). "Breaking Bad Prequel Spin-Off Better Call Saul Ordered to Series at AMC". TVLine. Archived from the original on June 27, 2019. Retrieved September 11, 2013.

^ Sources that consider Better Call Saul superior to Breaking Bad include:
Heritage, Stuart (October 11, 2018). "'S'all good, man': How Better Call Saul became superior to Breaking Bad". The Guardian. Archived from the original on October 11, 2018. Retrieved October 11, 2018.
Kelly, Stephen (June 20, 2017). "The perfect prequel: how Better Call Saul left Breaking Bad in its dust". The Guardian. Archived from the original on August 21, 2018. Retrieved August 20, 2018.
Turner, Julia (April 18, 2016). "Better Call Saul Is Better Than Breaking Bad". Slate. Archived from the original on September 27, 2018. Retrieved September 25, 2018.

^ Connolly, Kelly (February 6, 2020). "Better Call Saul Review: Jimmy Becomes Saul Goodman in a Fantastically Devastating Season 5". TV Guide. Archived from the original on February 6, 2020. Retrieved May 7, 2020.

^ Snierson, Dan (October 15, 2019). "Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan breaks down El Camino – and how he decided which characters to revive". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ a b Keegan, Rebecca (September 18, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Returns: Aaron Paul and Vince Gilligan Take a TV Classic for a Spin in 'El Camino'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved September 18, 2019.

^ Mitovich, Matt Webb (January 7, 2020). "Breaking Bad Movie Gets AMC Premiere Date, Following a Full Series Marathon". TVLine. Archived from the original on January 8, 2020. Retrieved January 7, 2020.

^ Sancto, Roxanne (October 12, 2019). "Review: El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Little White Lies. Archived from the original on January 5, 2020. Retrieved April 26, 2020.

^ Spiegel, Josh (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Review: Well-Executed, But Unnecessary". /Film. Archived from the original on December 7, 2019. Retrieved April 27, 2020.

^ Harding, Amanda (September 27, 2021). "'Breaking Bad' Has 17 Secret Episodes Most Fans Don't Know About". Showbiz Cheatsheet. Retrieved October 23, 2021.

^ Cobb, Kayla (June 8, 2022). "'Better Call Saul's Online Shorts Are a Silly Breath of Fresh Air". Decider. Retrieved July 12, 2022.

^ Better Call Saul [@BetterCallSaul] (July 8, 2022). "Even Kubrick had to start somewhere. Welcome to Filmmaker Training, a six-part Emmy-winning web series from the best film crew in Albuquerque, premiering this Monday on http://AMC.com and the AMC YouTube channel. #BetterCallSaul" (Tweet). Retrieved July 8, 2022 – via Twitter.

^ Canfield, David (September 11, 2017). "Carpool Karaoke, Melissa McCarthy, and Ava DuVernay's 13th Among the Big Winners of the 2017 Creative Arts Emmy Awards". Vulture. Archived from the original on March 6, 2020. Retrieved April 27, 2020.

^ Murphy, Chris (September 18, 2020). "All the Winners From Night 4 of the Creative Arts Emmys". Vulture. Archived from the original on November 16, 2020. Retrieved September 21, 2020.

^ O'Connell, Michael (July 19, 2019). "Emmys: 'State of the Union,' 'Special' Score Surprise Noms After 'Saul' Shortform Disqualification". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on July 22, 2019. Retrieved April 27, 2020.

^ Tangcay, Jazz (January 7, 2024). "2023 Creative Arts Emmy Awards: 'Welcome to Wrexham' Dominates, RuPaul Makes History, Carol Burnett Gets Emotional". Variety. Archived from the original on January 16, 2024. Retrieved January 16, 2024.

^ Steinberg, Brian (March 19, 2021). "AMC Networks Touts 'Dead,' 'Saul' Finales, 'Slippin' Jimmy' in Upfront Talks". Variety. Archived from the original on March 20, 2021. Retrieved March 21, 2021.

^ Bonomolo, Cameron (March 19, 2021). "Better Call Saul: Fat Albert-Style Animated Show 'Slippin' Jimmy' in Development at AMC". Comicbook.com. Archived from the original on March 21, 2021. Retrieved March 21, 2021.

^ Maas, Jennifer (February 10, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Final Season Gets Premiere Dates for Both Halves". Variety. Archived from the original on February 10, 2022. Retrieved February 10, 2022.

^ Darwish, Meaghan (May 23, 2022). "Our Prehistoric Planet, 'Saul' Midseason finale and Animated 'Slippin' Jimmy,' 'NCIS' and More Season Finales". TV Insider. Archived from the original on May 24, 2022. Retrieved May 24, 2022.

^ "Chicks 'N' Guns: Behind the Scenes". IMDb. Retrieved August 22, 2022.

^ "Breaking Bad - 'Chicks n' Guns' Behind The Scenes". Sony Pictures. Retrieved August 22, 2022 – via YouTube.

^ Lynch, Jason (June 15, 2017). "Acura Caps This Season's Better Call Saul Partnership by Bringing Back Some Memorable Season 1 Characters". RPA (Rubin Postaer and Associates). Retrieved November 15, 2021.

^ Dick, Jeremy (February 17, 2020). "Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short Gives Us More of Todd from El Camino". MovieWeb. Archived from the original on February 18, 2020. Retrieved February 18, 2020.

^ Zinski, Dan (April 5, 2022). "Better Call Saul Season 6 Video Shows Jimmy's Walter White Connections". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on April 5, 2022. Retrieved April 11, 2022.

^ Anderson, Lauren (April 10, 2022). "'Better Call Saul': 'American Greed' Special Drops Hints About Final Season". Showbiz Cheatsheet. Archived from the original on April 10, 2022. Retrieved April 11, 2022.

^ Snierson, Daniel (February 6, 2023). "Bryan Cranston breaks down the Breaking Bad reunion Super Bowl commercial". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on February 16, 2023. Retrieved March 3, 2023.

^ Patten, Dominic (May 10, 2013). "Univision Announces Adaptations of Breaking Bad & Gossip Girl for Hispanic Market". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on June 8, 2013. Retrieved May 14, 2013.

^ O'Connell, Michael (May 13, 2013). "Univision and Sony Firm Up Plans for a Breaking Bad Spanish-language Remake". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on September 18, 2018. Retrieved May 14, 2013.

^ Roxborough, Scott (October 2, 2013). "Meet Walter Blanco: Breaking Bad Gets Spanish-language Version". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on July 9, 2018. Retrieved October 2, 2013.

^ Bennett, Laura (February 7, 2014). "The Amazing World of Breaking Bad en Español". New Statesman. Progressive Media International. Archived from the original on February 9, 2014. Retrieved February 9, 2014.

^ Levin, Gary (June 3, 2014). "'Breaking Bad' doesn't get lost in Spanish translation". USA Today. Archived from the original on January 7, 2017. Retrieved March 8, 2022.

^ Jue, Teresa (September 17, 2014). "Spanish-language 'Breaking Bad,' 'Metastasis,' has series finale". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on February 11, 2021. Retrieved March 8, 2022.

^ Seo, Jung-min (February 14, 2023). "인기 미드 '브레이킹 배드' 한국서 리메이크한다" [Popular mid-length drama 'Breaking Bad' to be remade in Korea]. The Hankyoreh (in Korean). Retrieved February 14, 2023.

^ "[단독] 인기 미드 '브레이킹 배드' 한국서 리메이크한다". n.news.naver.com (in Korean). Retrieved February 15, 2023.

^ Sharf, Zack (July 3, 2019). "Jeffrey Katzenberg offered "Breaking Bad" team $75 million to make additional episodes". Salon. Archived from the original on July 16, 2019. Retrieved July 17, 2019.

^ Darwish, Meaghan (June 29, 2020). "Giancarlo Esposito Hosts 'The Broken and the Bad' Docuseries for AMC (VIDEO)". TV Insider. Archived from the original on June 30, 2020. Retrieved June 30, 2020.

^ Dick, Jeremy (June 26, 2020). "Giancarlo Esposito to Host Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul Inspired Docuseries". MovieWeb. Retrieved April 29, 2022.

^ "AMC Announces Chris Hardwick as Host of 'Talking Bad'" (Press release). AMC. July 21, 2013. Archived from the original on May 12, 2015. Retrieved July 22, 2013.

^ "Better Call Saul Insider Podcast". Apple. September 30, 2013. Archived from the original on July 12, 2022. Retrieved July 22, 2022.

^ "Better Call Saul Insider Podcast". Apple. Archived from the original on October 14, 2020. Retrieved October 8, 2020.

^ "Breaking Bad: All Bad Things Full Recap Comic Now Online". AMC. August 2013. Archived from the original on May 5, 2016. Retrieved May 9, 2016.

^ Couch, Aaron (August 9, 2013). "'Breaking Bad' Comic Lets Fans Catch up Before Premiere". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 15, 2016. Retrieved May 9, 2016.

^ Gonzalez, Sandra (February 4, 2015). "AMC unveils 'Better Call Saul' digital comic book ahead of series premiere". Mashable. Archived from the original on May 9, 2016. Retrieved May 9, 2016.

^ Stevens, Michael. ""Better Call Saul" Graphic Novel". Retrieved August 10, 2022.

^ Davids, Brian (August 1, 2022). "Better Call Saul Writer-EP Thomas Schnauz Breaks Down the Momentous Breaking Bad Episode". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 2, 2022. Retrieved August 2, 2022.

^ Walsh, Michael (February 12, 2016). "Better Call Saul Has Its Own Digital Comic Book, With Flying Jimmy". Nerdist. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved May 9, 2016.

^ "Breaking Bad Creator Once Pitched the Idea of a GTA-Like Game Adaptation". August 10, 2022.

^ Agar, Chris (June 6, 2019). "Breaking Bad: The Exact Moment Walt Turned into Heisenberg Mobile Game Lets You Be Heisenberg". Screen Rant. Retrieved October 29, 2019.

^ Cabrall, Matt (January 10, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Mobile Game Will Put Players in the Empire Business (Exclusive)". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved October 29, 2019.

^ Thubron, Rob (June 7, 2019). "Official Breaking Bad mobile game is now available". TechSpot. Retrieved October 29, 2019.

^ Cowley, Ric (January 11, 2019). "Breaking Bad: Criminal Elements is a second attempt at bringing the series to mobile". www.pocketgamer.com. Retrieved August 20, 2022.

^ Dinsdale, Ryan (August 10, 2022). "Breaking Bad Creator Once Pitched the Idea of a GTA-Like Game Adaptation". IGN. Retrieved August 20, 2022.

^ Atler, Charlotte (October 8, 2013). "Coming Soon: 'Breaking Bad' The Opera". Time. Archived from the original on November 9, 2014. Retrieved October 24, 2014.

^ "Hong '97 Merges Breaking Bad, Ozymandias". Illinois Wesleyan University. December 16, 2013. Archived from the original on February 18, 2020. Retrieved February 18, 2020.

^ Dionne, Zach (March 13, 2017). "Watch 'Breaking Bad' Edited Down to a Two-Hour Movie". Fuse. Archived from the original on June 6, 2020. Retrieved June 6, 2020.

^ Desta, Yohana (March 14, 2017). "How Two Breaking Bad Superfans Turned Their Favorite Show Into a Movie". Vanity Fair. Archived from the original on September 23, 2020. Retrieved June 6, 2020.

^ Romano, Aja (March 15, 2017). "Breaking Bad: The Movie shows why Breaking Bad had to be 5 seasons long". Vox. Archived from the original on June 6, 2020. Retrieved June 6, 2020.

^ Miller, Liz Shannon (March 15, 2017). "'Breaking Bad' The Movie: How Condensing the Show Robs You of What You Really Want — Walt and Jesse, Together". IndieWire. Archived from the original on August 8, 2020. Retrieved June 6, 2020.

^ McCluskey, Megan (March 13, 2017). "Here's the Movie Version of Breaking Bad You Never Knew You Needed". Time. Archived from the original on August 10, 2020. Retrieved June 6, 2020.

^ a b Sepinwall, Alan (March 14, 2017). "Your TV Show Doesn't Have To Be A Movie: In Defense Of The Episode (Again)". Uproxx. Archived from the original on April 11, 2020. Retrieved June 6, 2020.

^ "Say My Name!". rob-gathercole. Retrieved June 12, 2022.

^ @bobbyjgathers (April 25, 2022). "A bit of a pinch yourself moment - the Salamanca Cousins of @BreakingBad & @BetterCallSaul modelling the cast recording of my Breaking Bad Parody Musical, which is now on sale at the Breaking Bad Store ABQ, and still available to stream or purchase online!" (Tweet). Retrieved June 12, 2022 – via Twitter.

^ White, Peter (August 10, 2022). "Vince Gilligan Says 'Better Call Saul' Will Be Last Show In 'Breaking Bad' Universe: "You Can't Keep Putting All Your Money On Red 21" – TCA". Deadline Hollywood. Retrieved August 10, 2022.

^ Fienberg, Daniel (August 15, 2022). "Better Call Saul Co-Creator Explains Why the Series Finale Was So Different From Breaking Bad". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 16, 2022. Retrieved August 16, 2022.

^ Chaney, Jen (June 27, 2022). "'What Will I do Without That Guy?'". Vulture. Archived from the original on July 2, 2022. Retrieved August 16, 2022.

^ Keates, Emma (September 8, 2022). "Rejoice: the door isn't completely closed on a Gus Fring Breaking Bad prequel". The A.V. Club. Retrieved September 12, 2022.

^ Dawn, Randee (June 13, 2023). "You can't call on 'Saul' anymore, but we wish him well -- whatever name he is using". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 15, 2023. Retrieved June 14, 2023.


External links[edit]
Breaking Bad – official site, Sony Pictures
Breaking Bad on Netflix 
Breaking Bad at IMDb 
Better Call Saul – official site, AMC
Better Call Saul on Netflix 
Better Call Saul at IMDb 
vteBreaking BadEpisodesSeason 1
"Pilot"
"Cat's in the Bag..."
"...And the Bag's in the River"
"Cancer Man"
"Gray Matter"
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"
Season 2
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
"Grilled"
"Bit by a Dead Bee"
"Down"
"Breakage"
"Peekaboo"
"Negro y Azul"
"Better Call Saul"
"4 Days Out"
"Over"
"Mandala"
"Phoenix"
"ABQ"
Season 3
"No Más"
"Caballo sin Nombre"
"I.F.T."
"Green Light"
"Más"
"Sunset"
"One Minute"
"I See You"
"Kafkaesque"
"Fly"
"Abiquiu"
"Half Measures"
"Full Measure"
Season 4
"Box Cutter"
"Thirty-Eight Snub"
"Open House"
"Bullet Points"
"Shotgun"
"Cornered"
"Problem Dog"
"Hermanos"
"Bug"
"Salud"
"Crawl Space"
"End Times"
"Face Off"
Season 5Part 1
"Live Free or Die"
"Madrigal"
"Hazard Pay"
"Fifty-One"
"Dead Freight"
"Buyout"
"Say My Name"
"Gliding Over All"
Part 2
"Blood Money"
"Buried"
"Confessions"
"Rabid Dog"
"To'hajiilee"
"Ozymandias"
"Granite State"
"Felina"
Characters
Walter White
Skyler White
Jesse Pinkman
Hank Schrader
Marie Schrader
Walter White Jr.
Saul Goodman
Gus Fring
Mike Ehrmantraut
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Better Call Saul
"Breaking Bad"
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Metástasis
Talking Bad
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Baby Blue"
Faking Bad
Spiralix heisenbergi
"What Animated Women Want"
"Pickle Rick"
"Plug Walk"
"Celebrity Booze: The Ultimate Cash Grab"

 Category
 WikiQuote
 WikiCommons

vteBetter Call SaulEpisodesSeason 1
"Uno"
"Mijo"
"Nacho"
"Hero"
"Alpine Shepherd Boy"
"Five-O"
"Bingo"
"RICO"
"Pimento"
"Marco"
Season 2
"Switch"
"Cobbler"
"Amarillo"
"Gloves Off"
"Rebecca"
"Bali Ha'i"
"Inflatable"
"Fifi"
"Nailed"
"Klick"
Season 3
"Mabel"
"Witness"
"Sunk Costs"
"Sabrosito"
"Chicanery"
"Off Brand"
"Expenses"
"Slip"
"Fall"
"Lantern"
Season 4
"Smoke"
"Breathe"
"Something Beautiful"
"Talk"
"Quite a Ride"
"Piñata"
"Something Stupid"
"Coushatta"
"Wiedersehen"
"Winner"
Season 5
"Magic Man"
"50% Off"
"The Guy for This"
"Namaste"
"Dedicado a Max"
"Wexler v. Goodman"
"JMM"
"Bagman"
"Bad Choice Road"
"Something Unforgivable"
Season 6Part 1
"Wine and Roses"
"Carrot and Stick"
"Rock and Hard Place"
"Hit and Run"
"Black and Blue"
"Axe and Grind"
"Plan and Execution"
Part 2
"Point and Shoot"
"Fun and Games"
"Nippy"
"Breaking Bad"
"Waterworks"
"Saul Gone"
Characters
Jimmy McGill
Mike Ehrmantraut
Kim Wexler
Chuck McGill
Howard Hamlin
Nacho Varga
Gus Fring
Lalo Salamanca
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Breaking Bad ("Better Call Saul")
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Talking Saul
Slippin' Jimmy
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Address Unknown"

 Category

vteSony franchises and seriesSony PicturesEntertainmentColumbia Pictures
Anaconda
Bad Boys
Charlie's Angels
Dragon Tattoo Stories
Ghostbusters
The Grudge
I Know What You Did Last Summer
Jumanji
The Karate Kid
Men in Black
Mexico Trilogy
Robert Langdon
Rusty
Spider-Man
Spider-Man Universe
Stuart Little
Zombieland
Screen Gems
Resident Evil
Underworld
Sony Pictures Animation
Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs
Hotel Transylvania
Open Season
The Smurfs
Spider-Verse
Surf's Up
Sony Pictures Television
Breaking Bad
Fantasy Island
TriStar Pictures
3 Ninjas
Universal Soldier
Sony InteractiveEntertainment
Ape Escape
Arc the Lad
Everybody's Golf
God of War
Gran Turismo
Gravity Rush
Horizon
Infamous
Jak and Daxter
Killzone
The Last of Us
LittleBigPlanet
Marvel's Spider-Man
MediEvil
MotorStorm
Ratchet & Clank
Resistance
SingStar
Sly Cooper
Syphon Filter
Twisted Metal
Uncharted
Wild Arms
Wipeout

 Category





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Breaking_Bad_(franchise)&oldid=1219098590"

2019 American film by Vince Gilligan


El Camino: A Breaking Bad MoviePromotional posterDirected byVince GilliganWritten byVince GilliganBased onBreaking Badby Vince GilliganProduced by
Mark Johnson
Melissa Bernstein
Charles Newirth
Vince Gilligan
Aaron Paul
Diane Mercer
Starring
Aaron Paul
Jesse Plemons
Krysten Ritter
Charles Baker
Matt Jones
Robert Forster
Jonathan Banks
Bryan Cranston
CinematographyMarshall AdamsEdited bySkip MacdonaldMusic byDave PorterProductioncompaniesSony Pictures TelevisionGran Vía ProductionsHigh Bridge ProductionsDistributed byNetflixSony Pictures ReleasingRelease date
October 11, 2019 (2019-10-11)
Running time122 minutes[1]CountryUnited StatesLanguageEnglishBudget>$6 million[2]Box office>$40,000[3]
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (or simply El Camino) is a 2019 American neo-Western crime thriller film. Part of the Breaking Bad franchise, it serves as a sequel and epilogue to the television series Breaking Bad. It continues the story of Jesse Pinkman, who partnered with former teacher Walter White throughout the series to build a crystal meth empire based in Albuquerque. Series creator Vince Gilligan wrote, directed, and produced El Camino; Aaron Paul reprised his role as Jesse Pinkman. Several Breaking Bad actors also reprised their roles, including Jesse Plemons, Krysten Ritter, Charles Baker, Matt Jones, Robert Forster, Jonathan Banks, and Bryan Cranston. Forster died on the day of El Camino's release, making the film one of his final on-screen appearances.
Gilligan began considering the story of El Camino while writing Breaking Bad's series finale. He approached Paul with the idea for the film in 2017, near the tenth anniversary of the show's premiere, and completed the script several months later. Principal photography began in secret in New Mexico in November 2018, lasting nearly 50 days. The project remained unconfirmed until Netflix released a trailer on August 24, 2019.
El Camino received a digital release on Netflix and a limited theatrical run on October 11, 2019, with an AMC television premiere on February 16, 2020. It drew positive reviews from critics and garnered several award nominations, winning Best Movie Made for Television at the Critics' Choice Television Awards and Best Motion Picture Made for Television at the Satellite Awards. El Camino additionally gained four nominations at the Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards for Outstanding Television Movie and other technical categories.


Plot[edit]
In a flashback to shortly before they leave Walter White's meth business,[N 1] Jesse Pinkman asks Mike Ehrmantraut where he would go to start over. Mike says if he were younger, he would go to Alaska, which Jesse finds appealing. Jesse expresses the desire to make amends for past wrongdoing, but Mike cautions that starting over would make that impossible.
In the present, Jesse flees the Brotherhood compound in Todd Alquist's El Camino.[N 2] He goes to the Albuquerque home of Skinny Pete and Badger, who hide the car and give Jesse a place to sleep. The next morning, Jesse calls Old Joe to dispose of the El Camino, but Joe leaves after discovering its LoJack. Pete devises a plan to make it appear Jesse fled after trading the El Camino for Pete's Ford Thunderbird. Pete and Badger give Jesse the money Walter gave them,[N 2] and Badger drives south in the Thunderbird so it appears Jesse is headed to Mexico. Pete stays with the El Camino and waits for the police to respond to the LoJack. Jesse departs in Badger's Pontiac Fiero. He learns from the radio news of Walter's fatal poisoning of a woman,[N 3] and of Walter's death.[N 2]
In a flashback to Jesse's captivity,[N 4] Todd takes Jesse to Todd's apartment to help dispose of his cleaning lady, whom he killed after she discovered his hidden money. They sidestep Lou Schanzer, Todd's busybody neighbor, and bury the corpse in the Painted Desert. Jesse briefly holds the pistol Todd left unsecured, but Todd talks him into returning it.
In the present, Jesse sneaks into Todd's apartment and searches for Todd's money. He finds the new hiding place, but policemen Neil Kandy and Casey enter and begin searching. Jesse hides but holds Casey at gunpoint after Casey finds him. Neil disarms Jesse, who realizes they are not police but thugs also looking for Todd's money. To save himself, Jesse reveals he found the cash. Lou reports finding an old note from Todd, and Casey distracts him by feigning interest. Neil and Jesse bargain over the cash and Neil lets Jesse take a third. As they depart, Jesse recognizes Neil as the welder who built the tether that held him while he was forced to cook meth for the Brotherhood.
Jesse finds Ed Galbraith, the "disappearer", who wants US$125,000 to aid Jesse, plus $125,000 for the previous occasion when Jesse hired him but failed to commit.[N 5] Jesse is $1,800 short and Ed refuses to help. Knowing they are being surveilled, Jesse calls his parents and feigns willingness to surrender. After his parents and the police depart, Jesse sneaks into the Pinkman home and takes two pistols from his father's safe, a Colt Woodsman and an Iver Johnson Hammerless.[9][10]
Jesse drives to Neil's shop, where Neil, Casey, and three friends celebrate with escorts and cocaine. After the escorts leave, he asks for $1,800, and Neil refuses. Seeing the Woodsman in Jesse's waistband, Neil challenges Jesse to a duel for his share of the cash. Jesse agrees, and when Neil reaches for his gun, Jesse shoots him with the Hammerless, which was concealed in his jacket pocket. Casey fires at Jesse, but Jesse kills him with Neil's gun. Jesse collects the driver's licenses of the remaining men and lets them leave after threatening to return and kill them if they tell the police. He recovers Neil's cash and departs after setting an explosion to cover his tracks.
In a flashback,[N 6] Walter and Jesse have breakfast after a multi-day meth cook. Estimating they will make more than $1 million, Walter laments having waited his entire life to do something special and calls Jesse lucky since he will not have to wait.
In the present, Ed drops Jesse off at a car parked near Haines, Alaska. Jesse gives Ed a letter for Brock Cantillo and acknowledges he does not want to say goodbye to anyone else. Driving off, Jesse has a flashback to his time with Jane Margolis.[N 7] He tells her he admires what she said about going wherever the universe takes her, but she dismisses it as metaphorical and encourages him to make his own decisions. Jesse drives on, smiling at the prospect of a new life.

Cast[edit]
Further information: List of characters in the Breaking Bad franchise
Jesse Plemons, Krysten Ritter, and Jonathan Banks reprised their roles as Todd Alquist, Jane Margolis, and Mike Ehrmantraut, respectively.
Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman, a former meth cook who once partnered with Walter White
Jesse Plemons as Todd Alquist, one of Jesse's captors and a member of the neo-Nazi gang that forces Jesse to cook meth, who appears in flashbacks before his death
Krysten Ritter as Jane Margolis, Jesse's deceased girlfriend, who appears in a flashback
Charles Baker as Skinny Pete, Jesse's friend
Matt Jones as Brandon "Badger" Mayhew, Jesse's friend
Robert Forster as Ed Galbraith, a vacuum cleaner store owner who relocates people and gives them new identities
Jonathan Banks as Mike Ehrmantraut, former business partner of Jesse and Walter, who appears in a flashback
Bryan Cranston as Walter White, meth kingpin, and Jesse's deceased former partner and high school chemistry teacher, who appears in a flashback
Scott Shepherd as Casey, Neil's associate
Scott MacArthur as Neil Kandy, a welder involved in Jesse's captivity
Tom Bower as Lou Schanzer, Todd's nosy neighbor
Kevin Rankin as Kenny, one of Jesse's captors
Larry Hankin as Old Joe, the owner of a local junkyard who previously helped Jesse and Walter with several activities connected to their meth business
Tess Harper as Diane Pinkman, Jesse's mother who has a strained relationship with her son
Michael Bofshever as Adam Pinkman, Jesse's father who has a strained relationship with his son
Marla Gibbs as Jean, an Albuquerque resident seen shopping at Best Quality Vacuum
Brendan Sexton III as Kyle, an employee at Kandy Welding Co.
Johnny Ortiz as Busboy, who appears in a flashback serving Jesse and Walter's table at Owl Café
David Mattey as Clarence / Man Mountain, who appears dropping off the women at Kandy Welding Co.
Themes and style[edit]
While El Camino's plot focuses on Jesse Pinkman escaping to Alaska, writer and director Vince Gilligan stated that thematically, the film centers on Jesse's transformation from a boy to a man. As Jesse spent the entirety of Breaking Bad as Walter White's partner, El Camino in contrast shows Jesse coming to terms with his past and making his own decisions, free of White's influence.[12] This theme is prevalent in the flashbacks that bookend El Camino, with Mike Ehrmantraut at the beginning, and Walter White and Jane Margolis at the end. Alan Sepinwall of Rolling Stone detailed that while these scenes serve as a reminder of who Jesse used to be and all that he lost, "all three flashbacks are also about the way that Jesse has been forced by tragic circumstance to grow up and think more about his place in the universe and the impact he has on others. And they're about setting him on the road where Ed [Galbraith] leaves him at the film's conclusion".[7] Aaron Paul described his character Jesse as someone who went through "hell and back multiple times" and is still "paying for those sins", but Donna Bowman of The A.V. Club remarked that in freeing his ambitions from Walter White's manipulations, Jesse found his own redemption and avoided his mentor's fate, finally giving himself a chance for a future.[13][14]
The opening flashback with Jesse and Mike also sets the theme of Jesse wanting to start over while also making things right with his past. Though Mike warned that starting over would make it impossible to make amends, Sepinwall noted that Jesse was able to repay several emotional debts from the series with rectifying gestures throughout the film: giving a proper goodbye to his friends Badger and Skinny Pete, apologizing to his parents one last time, getting revenge against Neil Kandy and Casey, paying back his literal debt to Ed Galbraith, and sending his farewell letter of apology to Brock Cantillo.[7] Placing his own analysis on Jesse's final duel with Neil, Gilligan interpreted the scene as more than just Jesse getting the cash he needed for his escape, but also as a way of "exorcising demons" that plagued him from the events of the series. Both Gilligan and Paul speculated that Jesse would still be haunted by these demons, even in his new life in Alaska, but had at least achieved some form of vengeance for his past by ridding the world of an evil person.[12][13]
Breaking Bad was often categorized as a contemporary Western; this theme is also present in El Camino.[15][16] Gilligan expressed his admiration for director Sergio Leone and his love for the Western genre – he originally wanted to film Breaking Bad in the CinemaScope format Leone used for the Dollars Trilogy and got his wish in El Camino.[2][17] Critics noted the duel between Jesse and Neil as being directly in the style of Western films.[18][19] Gilligan referenced The Good, the Bad and the Ugly and other classic gunfights to sequence the scene with comparable camera coverage techniques, likewise composer Dave Porter used Western elements in the scene's score.[20][21] Ben Travers of IndieWire traced the film's Western influences to its "sweeping landscapes, lone survivor, and final stand-off", while Matt Zoller Seitz of Vulture called El Camino's title "unabashedly Western-tinged" and cited the final shot's lack of overt sentimentality as being true to the spirit of classic Westerns.[22][23]

Production[edit]
Conception[edit]
Vince Gilligan, the creator and showrunner of Breaking Bad, had the idea for El Camino while writing the series finale "Felina". He asked himself what happened to Jesse Pinkman after the events of the episode when Jesse escaped from the neo-Nazis' compound after being rescued by Walter White.[17] Though he kept Jesse's fate ambiguous in the finale's script, Gilligan offered two possibilities during interviews: a more realistic one where the police caught Jesse a few miles from the compound, and a second, more optimistic one where he got away but still had to cope with the terrible things he witnessed throughout the series.[24][25]
In the intervening years, Gilligan toyed with both approaches. One early idea involved Jesse hiding close to the Canadian border, getting lured back into crime to help a young woman in the town. This version ended with Jesse in a jail cell in the concluding scene, imprisoned yet at peace for the first time. Gilligan's girlfriend Holly Rice advised against this ending, saying fans would not appreciate seeing Jesse incarcerated after all he had been through.[26][27] He received the same feedback when separately pitching ideas for the film with the writing staff of Better Call Saul, a Breaking Bad spin-off also created by Gilligan that still aired at the time. The staff featured many writers from the original series; Gilligan originally served as co-showrunner during the early seasons before leaving the writers room to focus on other projects.[17][28] They also objected to this ending because they planned on using a similar idea for the series finale of Better Call Saul, which was still to come many years later, and felt this conclusion fit their story better than Jesse's.[29] After the negative reception to the concept of Jesse getting caught by authorities, Gilligan subsequently went with the storyline of Jesse escaping to Alaska.[26]

Development[edit]
El Camino follows Jesse Pinkman, portrayed by Aaron Paul, after the events of Breaking Bad.
The original idea for continuing Jesse Pinkman's story began as a short film or "mini-episode" of about 15 to 20 minutes in length. Realizing a short would not be cost-effective, Gilligan opted to make a full-length feature film.[17] He initially thought about titling the project '63, referring to its unofficial status as the 63rd episode of Breaking Bad.[12] However, during the meeting where Gilligan pitched story ideas with the Better Call Saul staff, series executive producer Thomas Schnauz advised him to change this proposed title.[17][12] Schnauz, who served as an executive producer and a writer on both television series, reasoned to Gilligan that Breaking Bad essentially focused on Walter White's story, whereas the film and its title should be unique to reflect that they centered on Jesse Pinkman.[30][12] Gilligan agreed and eventually settled on the title El Camino, referring to the car Jesse drives away with in "Felina".[12]
Near the tenth anniversary of Breaking Bad's premiere, Gilligan started sharing the idea with former cast and crew members as a means to celebrate the milestone.[2] Aaron Paul, who portrayed Jesse in the series, affirmed that around this time, he received a phone call from Gilligan, who hinted at a return for his character.[31][32] Paul initially believed this meant a cameo on Better Call Saul, which was a prequel to Breaking Bad. Gilligan then revealed his intentions to continue Jesse's story after the events of the series, much to Paul's excitement.[33] Though he thought Breaking Bad concluded satisfyingly, Paul still felt attached to the character of Jesse Pinkman; fans regularly asked him of Jesse's whereabouts, while he occasionally wondered about Jesse's fate himself.[34] At the end of the conversation, Paul showed eagerness to be involved with any idea Gilligan had for a Breaking Bad continuation.[31]
Gilligan presented Paul with a completed screenplay seven months after proposing his idea.[35] Paul spent three hours in Gilligan's office going over the script and almost instantly felt able to pick up on Jesse's mindset and emotional beats.[34][36] Following his initial read-through, Paul was so impressed that he felt speechless, and likened this initial reaction as being similar to the one after his first reading of "Felina".[34][37] Once he was finished with the screenplay, Paul continued to express happiness and excitement for the film, which he called a "love letter" to Jesse and Breaking Bad's fans, and lauded Gilligan for approaching the script with caution and care.[31][37]
Though Gilligan had been involved with feature-length films before, El Camino would be the first he directed and produced.[2] While he considered the concept of a sequel film for an extended period after Breaking Bad's conclusion, Gilligan stated he likely would not have been able to make it had Better Call Saul been unsuccessful.[38] When Gilligan made his initial film pitch to Sony Pictures Television, the studio behind both Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, the executives in the room quickly agreed to come on board. With his script in hand, Gilligan then selectively shopped the film to a few potential distributors, settling on Netflix and AMC due to their history with the show. Gilligan intended for El Camino to have a theatrical release, which Netflix previously provided for some of Breaking Bad's season premieres. El Camino's unspecified budget surpassed the $6 million budget per episode by the end of the show's final season.[2]

Writing[edit]
Vince Gilligan, the creator and showrunner of Breaking Bad, wrote and directed El Camino.
Unlike most of his work from The X-Files, Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, where he collaborated with a writers room to develop his scripts and meet his deadlines, Gilligan wrote the film's screenplay alone until he felt it was ready to present. Regarding El Camino as a coda to Breaking Bad, Gilligan believed the film would primarily appeal to fans and would not be as enjoyable to those who had not watched the series. This influenced his decision to write it as a direct continuation rather than inserting exposition scenes to try to attract new viewers.[2] He felt El Camino could be seen independently from both Breaking Bad and its spinoff Better Call Saul, similarly to how the two series could be seen independently from one another. However, he also believed the three works existed together in a larger framework, and that viewers needed to watch all of them together to receive the full experience.[17]
When thinking of which Breaking Bad characters to use for El Camino, Gilligan considered bringing back Skyler White, Walter Jr., Hank and Marie Schrader and Gus Fring, but could not find a way to incorporate them into Jesse's story. Saul Goodman was also considered, but Gilligan desisted as he was unaware of the potential plans Peter Gould and the Better Call Saul writers could have for the character in that series.[27] An early concept included bringing back Uncle Jack as a ghost that goaded Jesse throughout his journey, but Gilligan discarded this idea as too dreary as he felt Jesse already suffered enough.[17] Of the characters he ended up using, Gilligan felt most excited to bring back the sociopathic Todd Alquist, as he maintained fascination with the character and wished he could have been further explored on the series.[12] Jesse Plemons, who portrayed Todd, expressed surprise at his deceased character's sizable role upon first reading the script, and described his portion of the film as Todd, free from supervision of his elders, having his best day.[39][40] He also likened his scenes with Jesse to a dark buddy comedy.[39]
With Todd and the rest of the neo-Nazi gang canonically dead at the end of "Felina", Gilligan felt the film needed a new villain to introduce conflict for Jesse in the present storyline. For this reason, Gilligan created the character Neil Kandy, the welder who Gilligan labeled "Nazi-adjacent" due to his prior business dealings with the gang. He also described Neil as being more sociopathic than Todd, saying it would take someone of Neil's caliber to create the dog run that physically tethered Jesse without asking too many questions or even caring about Jesse's condition. Gilligan worried about introducing a new character not seen in Breaking Bad, but also called it "Drama 101" to include Neil as he gave Jesse a villain he could prevail against and provided the film with more visceral flair.[17]

Peter Gould and the Better Call Saul writing staff regularly consulted Gilligan as he developed the screenplay.
Gilligan would keep the Better Call Saul writers room involved throughout El Camino's production, including during the writing process.[41] This was to not only ensure the two projects' continuity did not interfere with one another but to also take in suggestions to improve his screenplay. Upon completion of his first draft, Gilligan immediately sought the advice of Gould, who developed Better Call Saul with Gilligan and became its sole showrunner after Gilligan reduced his own role in the series.[42][28] The decision to bring Jane Margolis into the story resulted from this consultation, as the initial script did not include the character. After Gould read the first draft, he advised that Jane could appear in the ending, "where it would mean the most to the audience". Gilligan thought about the suggestion for a couple of weeks and eventually agreed. He incorporated the idea into his script, and Jane ultimately delivered the final lines of El Camino.[12][43] Krysten Ritter, who reprised the role in the film, called the ending with her character "so beautiful" as it "sent Jesse off into the sunset with Jane riding shotgun ... He was going to be okay, and she was there with him".[44]
One of the biggest elements removed in later drafts was the very first thing Gilligan wrote for the script: the contents of Jesse's letter to Brock.[45] Gilligan planned on having it read in voice-over while Jesse drove through Alaska in the final scene; Paul described it as "the most honest, beautiful, caring letter imaginable – really, just pouring his heart out and saying he's sorry".[46] While the Better Call Saul staff praised the letter's contents, Gould and several others felt it would be better left to the audience's imagination to determine what Jesse wrote. Gilligan subsequently decided not to use the letter to conclude Jesse's story, and the voice-over would never end up being recorded.[41][47] Paul agreed with Gilligan's decision but mentioned he felt "crushed" it did not appear in the final cut.[26] He retained possession of the letter after filming finished and shared his hopes that the letter's contents will eventually be revealed to the public.[47][46]
Gilligan wrote the scene of Walter and Jesse sitting in the diner in a light-hearted tone, with the intention of providing one last chance to see the two characters together as a final treat for the fans. Producer Melissa Bernstein suggested adding a bit more poignancy to the scene to let it resonate further with the audience.[11] Gilligan left most of the scene from the original script intact, but he and Bernstein came up with the line "You're really lucky, you know that? That you didn't have to wait your whole life to do something special", tying the scene to El Camino's theme of Jesse finally taking control of his life.[12]

Filming[edit]
Under the working title Greenbrier, a majority of the filming occurred in Albuquerque, New Mexico from November 2018 to February 2019, with the overall shoot lasting 50 days.[48][49][2] El Camino had a more relaxed shooting pace than Breaking Bad, with only one-and-a-half to three pages of script filmed per day as opposed to six to eight.[2] This less-pressured schedule gave the actors more opportunities to improvise on set while providing the crew members additional time to film a wider variety of shots and further camera coverage.[50][51] Gilligan felt the slower pace allowed him to reflect and feel a greater sense of finality for his creation whilst filming.[17]
Despite not portraying their characters since the show's ending several years prior, cast members felt at ease reprising their former roles.[52][53] Paul filmed his scenes without any rehearsals, as he felt he could easily access Jesse's emotions the same way he could on the series.[34] He likened his reprisal as Jesse to zipping on an old friend.[54] El Camino also used many of the crew members who held their roles since the pilot of Breaking Bad, as several carried over to Better Call Saul when the show concluded.[32] The first footage filmed for El Camino was for the scene where Jesse shows up at Badger and Skinny Pete's house and collapses into bed; Paul compared his first day of shooting with Gilligan, Matt Jones, Charles Baker and the show's former crew members to a family reunion.[55][56]
During principal photography, production nearly decided to forgo filming the shot of Jesse picking up a beetle outside of Neil Kandy's office,[N 8] citing scheduling constraints. Paul remained adamant in capturing the moment, citing it as a key insight into Jesse's frame of mind. The crew relented and filmed the scene in one take.[47]

Cinematography[edit]
El Camino used a 2.39 widescreen aspect ratio on the Arri Alexa 65 camera to capture the work in a cinematic manner.[2] Gilligan and cinematographer Marshall Adams specifically chose the Alexa 65 for its quality in low-light filming, which the film heavily featured. Using this camera also meant El Camino would be shot digitally, as opposed to Breaking Bad which shot on 35 mm film.[57] Production designer Judy Rhee noted that Gilligan took advantage of his lens and wider aspect ratio to create a more visually luxurious experience than the series, letting the wide vista shots help meet El Camino's plot beats rather than employing more economic options commonly used for television.[58] Adams agreed with this opinion, citing as an example the vast and empty space of the Painted Desert underscoring Jesse's lonely and hopeless state in Todd's captivity.[59]
Gilligan wanted El Camino's cinematography to maintain the naturalistic look used on Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul while also expanding it. Adams specified this as the "realistic, practical-driven looks for night exteriors and low-light interiors that embraced all the colors and looks of Albuquerque" that he used on Better Call Saul.[57] By combining the Alexa 65 with Arri Prime DNA lenses, Adams could capture low-light efficiently, control depth of field, and also maintain color contrast and balance.[60][57] Adams graded El Camino's color palette with DaVinci Resolve; he did not let Breaking Bad dictate which colors he used and opted to make a palette specific to the film. To help receive dailies, production used FotoKem, who did the same work on both Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul. The crew delivered footage with requested color changes to on-site FotoKem members, who then applied the changes to get the dailies out fairly quickly for Adams' review.[60]
Adams saw El Camino as a way to pay homage to original Breaking Bad cinematographer Michael Slovis.[61] Though Adams took over as director of photography during the third season of Better Call Saul, he previously filmed pick-ups with Slovis during the end of Breaking Bad's fourth season and served as cinematographer during the show's fifth season premiere.[57][59] For El Camino, Adams took great lengths to match Slovis' lensing from the series while modifying it for the film's digital format and larger aspect ratio.[61][59] He specified the opening of Jesse driving out of the compound as one scene he updated using this approach, likening it to a "direct cut" from Jesse's last appearance in Breaking Bad's finale. Adams applied the same principle for other scenes which used locations from the series, such as the compound and the vacuum store.[59]
To distinguish the flashback scenes from the ones set in the present, Gilligan decided against using different color saturation. He instead chose to have flashbacks filmed in a "handheld" look while having the present-day scenes more anchored and locked down. The fact that much of Breaking Bad used handheld filming inspired this decision.[59] With the Alexa 65 camera too large to carry while filming, Gilligan achieved the "wiggling" effect by placing the camera on top of a truck airbag, which could be inflated and deflated easily between two plastic plates.[60]

Set design[edit]
Filming primarily occurred at Albuquerque Studios, where both Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul were shot, along with other locations throughout the city.[62][57] Wireless microphones would be planted throughout the sets and on the actors to record natural ambient noise and dialogue while shooting, as Gilligan preferred using organic sounds over applying ADR during post-production.[63]
Notable new sets built in the studio included Todd's apartment and the welding shop where Jesse's final confrontation with Neil Kandy and Casey took place. For the first, Rhee, who worked as the production designer on Better Call Saul's fourth season, arranged the set to reflect the duality of Todd's character. The initial living room seemed sunny, meticulous, and clean, reflective of Todd's exterior "Boy Scout" personality, and appeared decorated with a childlike Easter egg palette to give a sense of his arrested development. However, the set's palette became darker going further into his bedroom, indicative of Todd's sociopathic tendencies.[58] Plemons likened the apartment set to looking inside Todd's brain, describing absolute chaos beneath the apparent order on the surface.[64] Rhee also designed the dimensions of the apartment set to fit El Camino's aspect ratio when shooting overhead. In doing this, Gilligan could create the shot of Jesse searching for Todd's money in several different rooms simultaneously.[65] For the welding shop, Rhee wanted to maintain the accuracy of how a welding business appeared and match its exterior location, but also designed the set for the scene's stunt choreography and necessary camera blocking. Rhee incorporated the glass office in the back of the set to include breakage during the climax and enhance the scene's action beats.[58]
Several Breaking Bad locations were reused for El Camino, such as the Pinkman residence, the strip mall that contained Saul Goodman's office, and Ed Galbraith's vacuum repair shop.[66] The original vacuum store had sold and become a furniture store since the series ended, so production had to recreate the set from scratch and use a special buyer to locate identical props from flea markets and salvage areas.[58] Having a restored vacuum repair store set provided an added convenience for the fifth season premiere of Better Call Saul, which aired several months later. Initially, the episode included Ed Galbraith simply as a voice-over, as the episode's budget could not cover the cost of flying actor Robert Forster to Albuquerque and rebuilding the vacuum shop set. However, Bernstein recognized that both Forster and the rebuilt set would be available as part of El Camino. She then arranged for Gilligan to shoot the Better Call Saul scene with Forster in person during the film's production, months before filming began for any other episodes.[67]
One major Breaking Bad location that had to be rebuilt primarily on stage was the compound that held Jesse prisoner, as many of the original structures had been torn down. The new set recreated the interior of Jesse's cage for the initial scenes of Jesse in captivity and seeing Todd through the steel grate. Filming for the subsequent exterior sequence of Todd letting Jesse out of his confinement happened on location; production found an existing Quonset hut in downtown Albuquerque and built a slightly smaller scale cage next to it in order to match the original site from the series.[65] For the rebuilt compound laboratory, the set reused a majority of the original props, notably the cooking vessel Walter White touched shortly before he died in Breaking Bad's final scene. Despite resulting in a continuity error, Gilligan said he did not have the heart to clean Walt's bloody handprint from the prop and instead left it in as an intentional Easter egg for fans.[68]

Exterior locations[edit]
In addition to Albuquerque, filming locations included the Painted Desert in Arizona (left) and around the Grand Tetons in Wyoming (right).
The enhanced budget and filming schedule provided Gilligan a chance to capture scenes outside of New Mexico, something he wanted but could not do during Breaking Bad.[2] One such location included the Painted Desert in Arizona, where filming occurred for the scene of Jesse and Todd burying Todd's housekeeper.[12] Gilligan had the idea of shooting in the region after multiple helicopter trips between California and Albuquerque, noting the landscape for its natural beauty. As backroad travel in the Painted Desert required a permit, Gilligan received special permission from the Navajo Nation for filming.[27] Paul and Plemons reached the Painted Desert set by a helicopter flown by Gilligan himself, who was a licensed pilot.[69] The scene where Todd sings "Sharing the Night Together" in his El Camino was also shot in the area; Gilligan noted that Plemons improvised the gesture Todd gives to the truck driver.[27] Gilligan later referred to his time filming in the Painted Desert as the single best day of directing in his career.[70]
Another sequence filmed outside of Albuquerque was the concluding scene of Jesse driving towards his new life in Haines, Alaska. While Gilligan wanted to use the Haines Highway to shoot on location, production found that option expensive and instead used a similar setting outside of Jackson, Wyoming. During the day of filming, the crew took advantage of low cloud to naturally hide the Grand Tetons in the background; this allowed them to avoid using digital technology to remove the landmark in post-production.[71] For the preceding scene of Jesse making his final exchanges with Ed Galbraith in the parking lot outside of Haines, filming occurred at the Sandia Crest, a ridgeline at the high point of the Sandia Mountains which overlooks Albuquerque.[72]

Secrecy[edit]


"I've heard so many different things about it, but I am excited about the Breaking Bad movie ... I find it hard to believe you don’t know it was shot. They did it. You know what I mean? How is that a secret? But it is. They've done an amazing job of keeping it a secret."


Bob Odenkirk, star of Breaking Bad spin-off Better Call Saul, speaking on El Camino days before its announcement.[73]

El Camino was held in great secrecy from the pre-production stages. Certain cast members were approached for the film without knowing it was for a Breaking Bad continuation, and some kept that fact secret from their families when production began.[74][50] The producers were very protective of the script during this period; cast and crew members needed to be physically present in front of them in order to read the one copy that was kept under lock and key.[75][76] Only near the start of shooting did rumors float that a Breaking Bad film began development, with Paul returning as Jesse.[77][78] Bryan Cranston, who starred as Walter White on the series, confirmed the project in an interview but said he had not seen a script, although he showed interest in participating if Gilligan called for it.[79]

Bryan Cranston's cameo as Walter White was filmed in absolute secrecy during his two-day break from the Broadway play Network.
Cranston would ultimately end up appearing in El Camino, having flown to Albuquerque in a private jet to shoot his scenes within the span of 36 hours.[11] At the time he starred in the Broadway production Network, a role for which he eventually won the Tony Award for Best Leading Actor, but used a two-day break in January for filming.[80][81] As Cranston had grown his hair out since the series ended, the makeup team used a bald cap and fake moustache to help him achieve the appearance of Walter White, with additional visual effects added during post-production to perfect his look.[82][83] Filming for the diner scene occurred first, with the set containing only crew members and their families serving as extras in order to keep the shoot confidential.[80] Despite the enclosed filming location, numerous locals spotted the show's iconic RV in the parking lot of the diner, but the crew used the excuse that they were shooting a commercial for a Breaking Bad tour to deflect attention.[12] Cranston shot the hallway scene the next day then immediately returned to the airport, arriving in New York in time to perform that same evening.[80][83] To prevent paparazzi photos, Cranston heavily disguised himself when escorted from and throughout the set.[80] When filming completed for the day, Cranston and Paul were told to avoid seeing each other.[56]
Similar measures were taken to ensure that news of filming did not reach the locals, with cast and crew under tight restrictions about what they could say about the project.[2] Cast members wore large cloaks to disguise their identities when heading to the set or when shooting outside in public places, and each of their characters were given code names.[84][85][86] When off the set, the cast could not see one another, and when recognized they would lie that they were working on the film.[56][87][88] By the time the media began making a connection between Greenbrier and Breaking Bad, filming had mostly been completed.[31] After news broke that the film would be a Breaking Bad sequel, representatives for AMC, Netflix, and Sony Pictures TV all declined to comment regarding the project's existence.[89] Paul remained coy about its status, claiming in an interview that he had not heard anything regarding a Breaking Bad movie even though filming had wrapped a month earlier.[90]
Filming of Better Call Saul's fifth season took place shortly after El Camino finished shooting to take advantage of the assembled crew. As such, cast members of Better Call Saul became aware of the film but swore to secrecy on the project.[91] Days before El Camino's announcement, Bob Odenkirk, who starred as Saul Goodman on Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, teased that the film was already completed and that the producers had done "an amazing job of keeping it a secret".[73]

Editing[edit]
Editor Skip Macdonald, who worked on Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, stated that Gilligan receiving more leeway in capturing the shots that he wanted during filming resulted in more interesting pieces and design shots during the editing process. Macdonald also felt the elongated production schedule provided him more time to work on the individual scenes and the film's overall flow, and described maintaining rhythm and pacing without the use of commercial breaks as one of the biggest differences between his work on the film and the two television series.[20][92] Gilligan waited until filming completed before entering the cutting room to provide feedback; his initial viewing of Macdonald's rough cut was his first time seeing any production footage edited together.[51]
El Camino's rough cut had an original runtime of three hours, with an estimated 30 percent of footage left out of the finished film.[93] MacDonald mentioned the necessity of excising scenes to sustain audience interest while also preventing the film from overextending its runtime.[92] One story development removed during post-production involved Jesse getting shot in the side during his final showdown with Neil and Casey.[17] This would have been followed by Ed Galbraith finding a wounded Jesse at the vacuum store the following morning, the latter subsequently opening his car's trunk to reveal the cash he acquired to fulfill his end of the bargain.[94] While Paul asked to keep this sequence in the final cut, Gilligan felt it provided little payoff for the viewers and chose to remove it to let the film reach its conclusion quicker.[95][72] Other scenes shortened for runtime included Jesse further relaxing in his hotel room before meeting with Walter White and an extended sequence of Jesse and Jane during their road trip.[96][97] Gilligan confirmed the deleted and extended scenes would be available as bonus features for El Camino's home video release.[17]

Music[edit]
Score[edit]


"The Breaking Bad [score] is, at times, very, very spare and I think the El Camino score remains true to that, but there is complexity and a depth to the music that is fuller and greater in order to fill more sonic space in a theater. That was something we were definitely after."


Dave Porter, El Camino composer.[98]

To arrange El Camino's score, production retained the use of composer Dave Porter, who created all of the original music for Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul.[98][99] Arriving later into the production process, Porter estimated spending six to eight weeks composing the score, a much longer timetable compared to the three to four days per episode for the two series.[100][101] Given the lengthier production schedule, Gilligan appeared more frequently in the studio to listen to Porter's score and exchange ideas, something he had never done during Breaking Bad.[76] Porter, in turn, felt he had more resources to add nuance to El Camino's music and worked with Gilligan to achieve a cinematic sound which could also establish its own identity.[102]
Porter approached the film sequentially when composing the score, a method he described as unique to his usual process.[103] He arranged the music in the beginning of the film to resemble that of an episode of Breaking Bad before gradually sounding unique to Jesse.[104] Similar to his work on both series, his score used a mix of electronic sounds and live instrumentation.[21] When noting the biggest differences between scoring Breaking Bad and El Camino, Porter mentioned that while the series shifted between multiple interwoven storylines, the film focused on a singular arc – the trials of Jesse, who he considered the "moral thread" of the series.[103][104] This more linear storytelling presented Porter the opportunity to further explore Jesse's state of mind and experiment with his sound.[104] He described El Camino's contents and resulting score as more "cerebral" and "psychological", rather than relying on "fast-paced adrenaline".[102]
When preparing his score, Porter rewatched the series in order to select musical cues he could revisit for El Camino. Many of the returning characters and locations received updated themes; Porter cited the scenes with Ed Galbraith and the compound as examples. However, to differentiate the flashback scenes from the scenes set in the present, Porter tried to replicate the less cinematic sounds from the original series as closely as possible. He described his main goal in designing the film's sound as wanting to link back to the score used in the series, but in a manner that it would not feel jarring or out of place.[102] For this reason, Porter chose not to make any musical references to the original Breaking Bad theme song; he felt it represented Walter White's journey and did not fit in a story primarily about Jesse.[105]
Mondo issued an official soundtrack on October 14, 2020, nearly a full year after the film's release. The 26-track double-LP featured Porter's score and many of El Camino's licensed tracks.[106]

Licensed tracks[edit]
Licensed tracks were used sparingly in El Camino.[98] Two prominent in the final cut included "Sharing the Night Together" by Dr. Hook & the Medicine Show, which Todd sings in the car during his and Jesse's road trip, and "Static on the Radio" by Jim White, which ran over the end credits.[107]
Other licensed tracks include:[108]

"I'd Really Love to See You Tonight" by England Dan & John Ford Coley
"Spikey" by Red Snapper
"Curzon" by Demdike Stare
"Kountry Gentleman" by Family Force 5
"Call Me the Breeze" by Lynyrd Skynyrd
"To Sir with Love" by Lulu
"A Little Bit of Soap" by The Jarmels
"If I Didn't Have a Dime" by Ron Moody and the Centaurs
Marketing[edit]
Netflix officially announced El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie on August 24, 2019, unveiling the title, description, poster, logo, teaser trailer, and the October 11, 2019, release date for the film.[109] Days prior, Netflix accidentally listed the film on its website, which users quickly noticed before it got pulled.[110] Due to the secrecy of the project, fans and critics alike were taken aback by the sudden announcement, as well as by learning that the release date would come sooner than expected.[111][112][113]

Trailers[edit]
The first teaser released during El Camino's announcement featured a scene where the DEA interrogated Skinny Pete on Jesse Pinkman's whereabouts. Charles Baker reprised the role in the public's first glimpse of the film.[113] Though the scene was not used in the final cut, some critics noted after the premiere of its significance in El Camino's chronology, speculating that it likely took place shortly after Jesse and Skinny Pete parted ways.[7][114] Baker later revealed the original script did not include the teaser trailer's scene.[115]
Netflix released its first trailer on September 10, 2019, which solely consisted of Breaking Bad clips set to a cover of "Enchanted"[N 9] by Chloe x Halle.[117] A second teaser, which featured Jesse sitting in the El Camino and listening to news reports of the prior events of the series on the radio, debuted during the 71st Primetime Emmy Awards ceremony on September 22, 2019.[118] A full trailer premiered on September 24, 2019, which gave viewers their first full look of clips from El Camino accompanied by the song "Black Water" by Reuben and the Dark.[119][120]
Before El Camino's premiere, Netflix released two more promotional videos that used new footage from the film or the set: a teaser clip of Old Joe speaking with Jesse on the phone and a two-minute behind-the-scenes featurette.[121][122] Netflix later released an extended 13-minute behind-the-scenes featurette titled The Road to El Camino on October 29, 2019.[123]

The Countdown to El Camino[edit]
Before the release of El Camino, the Twitter accounts of Breaking Bad and Samsung US shared a countdown.[124] Titled The Countdown to El Camino, the promotion resulted from Samsung's partnership with Netflix.[125] The countdown would also be available as a 62-hour livestream on Samsung televisions prior to the film's release.[126]
The campaign saw the return of Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul character Huell Babineaux, with Lavell Crawford reprising the role.[124] Throughout the countdown, Huell appeared in several short video interludes of him sitting impatiently in a safe house,[N 10] loafing around or watching the news.[127][128] Upon the countdown's conclusion, a video showed of Huell leaving the safe house.[129] The character ultimately did not appear in El Camino, but many remarked that the promotion answered a question long posed by fans of Huell's fate after Breaking Bad ended.[124][127][128]
Over 3.5 million viewers watched the livestream before the film's release. Chemistry, the advertising agency behind the promotion, later submitted the campaign for award consideration under the name Waiting with Huell. The campaign earned Bronze Distinction in Television for the 12th Annual Shorty Awards and the Bronze Award for Branded Entertainment & Content for the 2020 Clio Awards.[130][131]

Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short[edit]
In conjunction with the television premiere of El Camino on AMC, the network released a three-minute short film Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short on its official YouTube account on February 16, 2020.[132][133] The short, directed by Eric Schmidt and written by Melissa Ng, stars Jesse Plemons as Todd with Laura Fraser providing her voice as Lydia Rodarte-Quayle.[134][135] Taking place at some point before the events of the film, the short features Todd assembling a custom snow globe which includes his and Lydia's likenesses and little floating Stevia packets, as he tries to call her to ask her on a date.[136][137] El Camino previously featured the same snow globe in the scene when Casey inspects Todd's bedroom.[138]

Release[edit]
El Camino marked one of Robert Forster's final appearances, as he died on the day of the film's release.
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie had its world premiere on October 7, 2019, at the Regency Village Theatre in Los Angeles, with multiple cast members from the film, Breaking Bad, and Better Call Saul in attendance.[38][139] Netflix digitally released the film on October 11, 2019.[31] El Camino also received a limited theatrical release from October 11 to 13 in the United States.[140] It later premiered on AMC television on February 16, 2020, following a complete marathon of the series on the network.[141]
On the day of El Camino's release, Robert Forster, who played Ed in both the series and film, died of complications from brain cancer, at the age of 78.[142] Among others throughout Hollywood, the cast and crew of Breaking Bad paid tribute to him.[72][143][144] According to Aaron Paul, Forster watched the film before his passing: "he was so proud of it and of me. He called to tell me that he loved me. I sensed something was wrong, but I got on a plane and, when I landed, he'd died. It was incredibly sad to hear".[145]

Audience viewership[edit]
Nielsen reported that El Camino drew 2.65 million viewers within a day of its release, with an overall 6.54 million total viewers during opening weekend.[146][147] An additional reported 8.2 million viewers watched a few minutes of El Camino during its first three days of availability.[146] This compared well to Breaking Bad's fifth-season premiere with 5.9 million viewers and finale with 10.3 million when they first aired on AMC.[148][149] After the first week of its release, Netflix announced that over 25 million households had seen the film.[150]
For El Camino's limited theatrical release, 12 of the 125 theaters that screened the film reported a combined gross of $40,000, an average of $3,333 per venue.[3] TheWrap calculated that if El Camino received a proper wide theatrical release, and that if every reported viewer had purchased a ticket for the average price to see it, then the film would have topped the box office that weekend.[151] Months later, El Camino drew 774,000 viewers for its AMC television premiere.[152]

Home media[edit]
El Camino received its first home video release on October 13, 2020, as a DVD/Blu-ray combo packaged in a limited edition steelbook from Sony Pictures Home Entertainment. Features exclusive to the Blu-ray consisted of a commentary track from Vince Gilligan and Aaron Paul, deleted and extended scenes, a gag reel, and scene studies with Gilligan. Other features on both the Blu-ray and DVD included a commentary track from multiple members of the cast and crew, a behind-the-scenes documentary, promotional teasers and trailers, and visual effects design galleries.[153]

Reception[edit]
Critical response[edit]
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie has a score of 92% based on the opinions of 133 critics, with an average rating of 7.3/10. Its critical consensus read, "Entertaining if not essential, El Camino adds a satisfying belated coda to the Breaking Bad story – led by a career-best performance from Aaron Paul".[154] Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned El Camino a score of 72 out of 100 based on 34 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".[155]
Judy Berman of Time lauded Aaron Paul's "mesmerizing" lead performance, citing his ease at "fully re-inhabiting a role he hadn't played for years ... endowing Jesse with the same mix of (waning) goofiness and (escalating) existential terror that propelled him through the finale".[156] Liz Shannon Miller elaborated, in her review from The Verge, that "[Paul's] work in El Camino is staggering, given the high difficulty factor that comes with having to play so many variations of this character" and followed this by stating "what makes El Camino so compelling is the way it engages with how he's changed since those early days".[157] In contrast, GQ's David Levesley felt El Camino did not utilize Paul's full potential, saying that "without actors to bounce off, the film often doesn't know what to do with him".[158] Daniel Fienberg of The Hollywood Reporter would also highlight Jesse Plemons' performance, mentioning "Plemons never got the respect he deserved ... and this might be a good time to properly relish what an odd and awful guy Todd was".[159]
Fienberg further commended Vince Gilligan's direction, calling Gilligan "a precise and complicated visual stylist ... the conception of Breaking Bad as a modern Western has never been so clearly articulated and executed". He also credited cinematographer Marshall Adams, editor Skip Macdonald, and composer Dave Porter, all of whom worked on Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, for helping El Camino "return to the original show's grammar".[159] Writing for Entertainment Weekly, critic Darren Franich called Gilligan's style "energetic" and lauded the larger budget being applied "more for high anxiety than flashy pyrotechnics", citing El Camino's cinematography, editing, and montages as examples.[160] Erik Adams of The A.V. Club found the Western imagery a bit "clumsily deployed" but complimented the scale of the film.[161]

As a Breaking Bad continuation[edit]
From a narrative perspective, Alan Sepinwall of Rolling Stone praised El Camino as a continuation of Breaking Bad, stating that "if the [Breaking Bad] conclusion had a flaw ... it's that Jesse got left behind a bit. By the end of El Camino, that's no longer the case".[162] The Daily Beast's Melissa Leon agreed, saying that "Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan's meditative neo-western El Camino attaches a coda to Jesse's story, detailing the emotional (and physical) scars Walt left him to live with".[163] Regarding the film's chronology from the preceding series, Steve Greene of IndieWire commented "though the specter of Jesse's former partners haunt El Camino, Gilligan effectively holds the audience's attention to keep them focused on the present".[164] When comparing the film to other franchise continuation projects, Roxanne Sancto of Little White Lies mentioned that "movie spin-offs [have] become a dangerous trend that often ends in disappointment ... the balance needs to be just right and, fortunately, creator Vince Gilligan has nailed it with El Camino".[165]
While Josh Spiegel of /Film found El Camino enjoyable, he conversely saw the film as inessential to the overall arc of the series. He wrote that "if you loved Breaking Bad ... you might have wondered, 'What will happen to Jesse Pinkman next?' It's not even that Vince Gilligan answering that question was a bad idea. It's that a two-hour version of that answer, as beautiful as it looks and as well-acted as it is, was wholly superfluous".[166] Franich similarly compared El Camino to a television reunion special, calling it "a playful project, very fun, not always necessary".[160] Less complimentary was the BBC's Hugh Montgomery, who described it as "a franchise extension as lazy and vacuous as anything dreamt up on the big-screen".[167] However, Alissa Wilkinson of Vox reasoned that the enjoyment of El Camino "comes from seeing your favorite characters again, not finally resolving missing pieces that have tortured your sleep for six years".[168]
Brian Tallerico of RogerEbert.com also noted the necessity of having seen the entirety of Breaking Bad before watching the film, writing that "if you're hazy on what happened in the AMC hit, be warned that El Camino does not hold your hand. It is not designed to exist as a standalone movie as much as something watched after the end of season five".[169] Richard Roeper of Chicago Sun-Times concurred, saying "you'll be as lost as Badger without Skinny Pete if you tried to watch this sharp and compelling sequel without having seen the series".[170] When speaking as to which audience would enjoy the film, Vadim Rizov of Sight & Sound remarked that "El Camino will only work for fans who can recall who all these familiar faces are – the nostalgic pull and possibility for reconnection are sometimes recapped in dialogue, most of it avoiding the ludicrously expository, but outsiders will be baffled".[171]

Accolades[edit]
El Camino received several nominations in the streaming or television film categories from major industry award ceremonies where Breaking Bad previously won multiple accolades in the television series categories.[172][173][174] Three awards won by the film included Best Movie Made for Television at the Critics' Choice Television Awards, Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Single Presentation at the Golden Reel Awards, and Best Motion Picture Made for Television at the Satellite Awards.[175][176][177]
For the 72nd Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards, El Camino received four nominations: Outstanding Television Movie, Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing and Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Limited Series or Movie, and Outstanding Sound Editing for a Limited Series, Movie, or Special.[178] Many critics predicted that Paul and Plemons would be respectively nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor and Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie for their roles in the film, but both actors were left off when the nominees were announced.[179][180] As Breaking Bad collected a total of sixteen Emmy Awards throughout its run, some critics also felt El Camino could potentially win Outstanding Television Movie based on the series' prior clout with voters.[181][182][183] However, Bad Education went on to claim the award, while Watchmen won in every technical category where El Camino was nominated.[184]


Accolades received by El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie


Award

Date of ceremony

Category

Nominees

Result

Refs


Cinema Audio Society Awards

January 25, 2020

Outstanding Achievement in Sound Mixing for Television Movie or Limited Series

Phillip W. Palmer, Larry B. Benjamin, Kevin Valentine, Greg Hayes, Chris Navarro, and Stacey Michaels

Nominated

[185][186]


Critics' Choice Television Awards

January 12, 2020

Best Movie Made for Television

El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie

Won

[187][175]


Best Supporting Actor in a Movie/Miniseries

Jesse Plemons

Nominated


Directors Guild of America Awards

January 25, 2020

Outstanding Directing – Movies for Television and Limited Series

Vince Gilligan[a]

Nominated

[188][189]


Golden Reel Awards

January 19, 2020

Outstanding Achievement in Sound Editing – Single Presentation

Kurt Nicholas Forshager, Todd Toon, Kathryn Madsen, Jane Boegel, Luke Gibleon, Jason Tregoe Newman, Bryant J. Fuhrmann, Jeff Cranford, Gregg Barbanell, and Alex Ullrich

Won

[190][176]


Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards

September 16, 2020[b]

Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Limited Series or Movie

Skip Macdonald

Nominated

[178][184]


Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Limited Series or Movie

Phillip W. Palmer, Larry B. Benjamin, Kevin Valentine, and Stacey Michaels

Nominated


September 19, 2020[b]

Outstanding Sound Editing for a Limited Series, Movie, or Special

Kurt Nicholas Forshager, Todd Toon, Kathryn Madsen, Jane Boegel, Luke Gibleon, Jason Tregoe Newman, Bryant J. Fuhrmann, Jeff Cranford, Gregg Barbanell, and Alex Ullrich

Nominated


Outstanding Television Movie

El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie

Nominated


Producers Guild of America Awards

January 18, 2020

Outstanding Producer of Streamed or Televised Motion Pictures

Mark Johnson, Melissa Bernstein, Charles Newirth, Vince Gilligan, Aaron Paul, and Diane Mercer

Nominated

[192][193]


Satellite Awards

December 19, 2019

Best Actor – Miniseries or Television Film

Aaron Paul

Nominated

[194][177]


Best Motion Picture Made for Television

El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie

Won


Saturn Awards

October 26, 2021

Best Action or Adventure Film

El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie

Nominated

[195][196]


Best Actor in a Film

Aaron Paul

Nominated


Writers Guild of America Awards

February 1, 2020

Television: Long Form – Adapted

Vince Gilligan

Nominated

[197][198]



^ Additional nominees: Robin Le Chanu, Charles Newirth (unit production managers), John Wildermuth (first assistant director), Katy Galow (second assistant director), Nathan E. Davis (second second assistant director), Melissa Bosco-Laude, and Chad Goyette (additional second assistant directors).[188]

^ a b The 72nd Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards ceremony took place from September 14 to 17, 2020, and on September 19, 2020. The date listed next to each Emmy category denotes when the corresponding award was given.[191]


Future[edit]
Both Vince Gilligan and Aaron Paul regarded El Camino as the proper conclusion to Jesse Pinkman's story, with neither having immediate plans for a sequel after the film's release.[71][199] Speculating on Jesse's new life in Haines, Alaska, following the events of El Camino, Gilligan surmised that Jesse "would enjoy the brewery and maybe get a job with the ski manufacturer ... the very nice people of Alaska would welcome him into the community".[71] Paul believed that Jesse is "going to keep his nose clean. He has quite a bit of cash on hand. And he's going to live a very modest lifestyle. He's moving to a very small place in Alaska, so he doesn't need all that much money. He knows how to work with his hands, and so he just needs to refresh those skills and become the artist that he was always meant to be".[13]
However, neither Gilligan nor Paul definitively ruled out the possibility of a sequel film to El Camino.[12][32] Gilligan wanted to create a new story outside of the Breaking Bad franchise once he helped finish the final season of Better Call Saul, but indicated a slight chance of returning to Jesse's storyline if everyone still held interest.[2][12] He suggested a possible sequel could take place in Haines.[71] Paul said he would be interested in playing Jesse again if Gilligan felt he had more story to tell, but highly doubted such a scenario could occur since the film gave the character a satisfying ending.[52] He also expressed a desire to work with Gilligan again, regardless if the project was related to Breaking Bad or not.[199] Though Paul signaled warmth to the idea of seeing Jesse's adventures in Alaska, he also declined the prospect of a new Breaking Bad season that would focus on him.[52][200]
Paul would eventually reprise Jesse Pinkman again in Better Call Saul's final season for two episodes, with Gilligan directing the second.[201] However, his character's appearances canonically took place before the events of El Camino.[202][203] After the initial announcement of his guest-starring role, Paul reiterated that any other return as Jesse Pinkman required Gilligan's involvement.[47] Gilligan reaffirmed he had no plans for any new entries in the Breaking Bad franchise shortly before Better Call Saul concluded.[201] Following the series finale, Paul said he felt confident that Better Call Saul marked Jesse's final appearances and called it a farewell to his character.[204]

Notes[edit]


^ During the events of "Buyout" and "Say My Name", set around early 2010.[4][5][6]

^ a b c As depicted in "Felina".[7]

^ Identified offscreen as Lydia Rodarte-Quayle.[8]

^ After the events of "Granite State".[7]

^ As depicted in "Confessions".[7]

^ During the events of "4 Days Out".[11]

^ Set after the events of the cold open flashback in "Abiquiu".[4]

^ A callback to a similar scene in "Peekaboo".[47]

^ The original song by The Platters previously appeared in "Mandala".[116]

^ Where he supposedly resided since "To'hajiilee".[124]


References[edit]


^ "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Netflix. Archived from the original on October 2, 2019. Retrieved September 18, 2019.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Keegan, Rebecca (September 18, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Returns: Aaron Paul and Vince Gilligan Take a TV Classic for a Spin in 'El Camino'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved September 18, 2019.

^ a b Brueggemann, Tom (October 13, 2019). "Record-Breaking 'Parasite' Scores the Best Platform Opening Since 'La La Land'". IndieWire. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved November 6, 2019.

^ a b Wigler, Josh (October 11, 2019). "How 'El Camino' Honors and Moves Beyond 'Breaking Bad'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ Halterman, Jim (October 23, 2019). "Vince Gilligan on the Possibility of More 'Breaking Bad'-Inspired Movies". TV Insider. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 23, 2019.

^ Miller, Liz Shannon (October 15, 2019). "How El Camino Fits into the Breaking Bad Timeline". Vulture. New York, NY. Archived from the original on October 20, 2020. Retrieved December 30, 2020.

^ a b c d e f Sepinwall, Alan (October 12, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Recap: Jesse Pinkman Is Born Again". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Jeffery, Morgan (October 17, 2019). "Laura Fraser reacts to her Breaking Bad character's El Camino fate". Radio Times. Archived from the original on June 13, 2020. Retrieved June 13, 2020.

^ Eger, Chris (October 14, 2019). "Jesse Pinkman is Back: The Curious Guns of El Camino". Guns.com. Burnsville, MN. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 30, 2019.

^ Maccar, David (October 14, 2019). "Guns of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Range 365. Winter Park, FL: Bonnier Corporation. Archived from the original on September 27, 2020. Retrieved December 7, 2020.

^ a b c Ryan, Patrick (October 14, 2019). "'El Camino': 'Breaking Bad' creator explains how that major character returned". USA Today. Archived from the original on February 18, 2020. Retrieved October 8, 2021.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m Snierson, Dan (October 15, 2019). "Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan breaks down El Camino – and how he decided which characters to revive". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ a b c Snierson, Dan (October 13, 2019). "Aaron Paul breaks down El Camino, surprise reunions, and if he'll play Jesse again". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 15, 2020. Retrieved June 7, 2020.

^ Bowman, Donna (October 11, 2019). "El Camino gives the Breaking Bad-verse its first redemption story". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Nevins, Bill (March 27, 2013). "Contemporary Western: An Interview with Vince Gilligan". Local iQ. Archived from the original on April 3, 2013. Retrieved June 7, 2020.

^ Bojalad, Alec (October 14, 2019). "El Camino: Breaking Bad Easter Eggs and Reference Guide". Den of Geek. Archived from the original on March 23, 2020. Retrieved June 11, 2020.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k Sepinwall, Alan (October 15, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Creator Vince Gilligan on 'El Camino' and Rooting for Jesse Pinkman". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ The Ringer Staff (October 14, 2019). "The 'El Camino' Exit Survey". The Ringer. Archived from the original on April 20, 2020. Retrieved June 11, 2020.

^ Meyer, Joshua (October 14, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Spoiler Review: Getting the Band Back Together for a Gunslinging Netflix Coda". /Film. Archived from the original on October 22, 2019. Retrieved June 11, 2020.

^ a b Phillips, David (June 29, 2020). "Editor Skip Macdonald on Cutting 'El Camino,' 'Better Call Saul,' and 'Breaking Bad'". Awards Daily. Archived from the original on June 29, 2020. Retrieved June 29, 2020.

^ a b Phillips, David (May 13, 2020). "Composer Dave Porter on Scoring 'El Camino' and the Entire 'Breaking Bad' Universe". Awards Daily. Archived from the original on May 18, 2020. Retrieved May 18, 2020.

^ Travers, Ben (October 12, 2019). "'El Camino' Is an Ideal Epilogue to a Perfect Ending, Not Another Chapter of 'Breaking Bad'". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ Seitz, Matt Zoller (October 11, 2019). "El Camino Gives Breaking Bad Fans Exactly What They Want". Vulture. Archived from the original on December 17, 2019. Retrieved June 7, 2020.

^ Lyons, Margaret (October 28, 2013). "Behold the Final Two Pages of Breaking Bad's Finale Script". Variety. Archived from the original on April 14, 2021. Retrieved March 30, 2022.

^ Snierson, Dan (September 30, 2013). "'Breaking Bad': Creator Vince Gilligan explains series finale". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ a b c Snierson, Dan (October 14, 2019). "Aaron Paul and Vince Gilligan reveal two alternate endings to El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ a b c d Fernandez, Maria Elena (October 14, 2019). "The Breaking Bad Movie Almost Had a Very Different Ending". Vulture. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 26, 2019.

^ a b Birnbaum, Debra (April 5, 2017). "'Better Call Saul's' 'Breaking' Point: How It's Gearing Up for Gus Fring". Variety. Archived from the original on July 22, 2020. Retrieved February 16, 2022.

^ Davids, Brian (August 16, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Team Talks Finding Closure With Series Finale". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 16, 2022. Retrieved August 30, 2022.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (August 1, 2022). "Better Call Saul Writer on Finally Entering the World of Breaking Bad". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on August 12, 2022. Retrieved August 2, 2022.

^ a b c d e Itzkoff, Dave (August 24, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Movie, Starring Aaron Paul, Coming to Netflix in October". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved August 24, 2019.

^ a b c Sepinwall, Alan (October 19, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie': Aaron Paul on Jesse Pinkman's Wild Ride". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 21, 2019.

^ Mack, David (October 24, 2019). "Aaron Paul Revealed The Touching Response To His "BoJack" Character's Sexuality". Buzzfeed News. Archived from the original on January 4, 2021. Retrieved March 29, 2022.

^ a b c d Raftery, Brian (October 1, 2019). "95 Minutes With Aaron Paul: The Breaking Bad star returns to his greatest role". Vulture. Archived from the original on October 1, 2019. Retrieved October 4, 2021.

^ Stolworthy, Jacob (October 18, 2019). "Aaron Paul: 'Even after I tested for Breaking Bad, no one wanted me to play Jesse Pinkman'". The Independent. Archived from the original on June 4, 2021. Retrieved October 4, 2021.

^ Chow, Andrew (October 2, 2019). "Aaron Paul on Revisiting His 'Old Friend' Jesse Pinkman in El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Time. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 29, 2019.

^ a b Naahar, Rohan (October 19, 2019). "Aaron Paul exclusive interview: El Camino star talks about the diner scene, teases more Breaking Bad stories". Hindustan Times. Archived from the original on August 23, 2021. Retrieved October 19, 2019.

^ a b Couch, Aaron (October 8, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Universe Collides at 'El Camino' Premiere". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ a b Ryan, Patrick (October 19, 2019). "'El Camino': Jesse Plemons calls 'Breaking Bad' sequel 'the darkest buddy comedy ever'". USA Today. Archived from the original on February 15, 2020. Retrieved June 21, 2020.

^ Shaffer, Marshall (June 16, 2020). "Jesse Plemons Reflects On 'El Camino,' Acting Opposite Philip Seymour Hoffman In 'The Master' & More". The Playlist. Archived from the original on January 24, 2022. Retrieved April 3, 2022.

^ a b Bell, Amanda (June 23, 2020). "Vince Gilligan Says El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie Balanced the 'Scales of Justice' for Jesse Pinkman". TV Guide. Archived from the original on June 24, 2020. Retrieved July 2, 2020.

^ Couch, Aaron; Wigler, Josh (October 13, 2019). "Will 'Breaking Bad' Movie 'El Camino' Influence the End of 'Better Call Saul'?". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 13, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ Spencer, Samuel (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino' Ending Explained: What Happened at the End of the 'Breaking Bad' Movie and Will There Be a Sequel?". Newsweek. Archived from the original on November 16, 2019. Retrieved June 10, 2020.

^ Davids, Brian (September 30, 2021). "Krysten Ritter on 'Nightbooks' and the Legacy of 'Breaking Bad'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on September 30, 2021. Retrieved September 30, 2021.

^ Chow, Andrew (October 11, 2019). "Aaron Paul on the Ending – and the Cameos – of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Time. Archived from the original on January 11, 2022. Retrieved April 4, 2022.

^ a b Bell, Amanda (October 11, 2019). "Aaron Paul Explains Jesse's Letter at the End of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". TV Guide. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ a b c d e Davids, Brian (April 15, 2022). "Aaron Paul on 'Dual' and Guest-Starring on 'Better Call Saul'". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 17, 2022. Retrieved April 17, 2022.

^ Andreeva, Nellie (February 13, 2019). "Vince Gilligan's 'Breaking Bad' Movie Headed To Netflix & AMC". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on February 13, 2019. Retrieved July 1, 2019.

^ Gomez, Adrian (November 6, 2018). "'Breaking Bad' coming to the big screen". Albuquerque Journal. Archived from the original on July 25, 2019. Retrieved July 24, 2019.

^ a b Couch, Aaron (October 12, 2019). "How 'El Camino' Brought Back 'Breaking Bad' Favorites Badger and Skinny Pete". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 16, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ a b Hullfish, Steve (August 30, 2020). "ART OF THE CUT with the editor of "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie"". ProVideoCoalition. Archived from the original on May 6, 2021. Retrieved April 3, 2022.

^ a b c Meslow, Scott (October 14, 2019). "Aaron Paul on Breaking Bad One More Time". GQ. Archived from the original on June 27, 2021. Retrieved July 31, 2021.

^ Lawrence, Derek (October 16, 2019). "Jesse Plemons talks his extended El Camino return, Todd's admiration for Jesse". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on July 23, 2021. Retrieved July 30, 2021.

^ Harnick, Chris (October 11, 2019). "Aaron Paul on the "Beautiful, Crazy Story" of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". E! News. Archived from the original on January 13, 2021. Retrieved March 29, 2022.

^ Greene, Steve (October 14, 2019). "'El Camino': Aaron Paul on Why Recreating a 'Breaking Bad' Scene Was the Movie's Toughest Moment". IndieWire. Archived from the original on March 4, 2021. Retrieved August 9, 2021.

^ a b c Snierson, Dan (October 11, 2019). "Breaking Bad: Aaron Paul on that top secret scene in El Camino". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ a b c d e Altman, Randi (October 23, 2019). "DP Chat: Marshall Adams talks El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". postPerspective. Archived from the original on April 20, 2020. Retrieved March 27, 2020.

^ a b c d Phillips, David (December 9, 2019). "Production Designer Judy Rhee Enters the World Of 'Breaking Bad' With 'El Camino'". Awards Daily. Archived from the original on December 8, 2019. Retrieved June 5, 2020.

^ a b c d e Phillips, David (June 4, 2020). "Cinematographer Marshall Adams on Making 'El Camino' Into a Modern Day Western". Awards Daily. Archived from the original on June 5, 2020. Retrieved June 5, 2020.

^ a b c Hogg, Trevor (January 14, 2020). "The Cinematography and Color Grading of 'El Camino': A Creative and Technical Achievement". Sound & Picture. Archived from the original on May 13, 2020. Retrieved June 5, 2020.

^ a b Goldrich, Robert (June 5, 2020). "Adams, Macdonald Reflect On Lensing, Editing "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie"". Shoot. Archived from the original on June 8, 2020. Retrieved June 18, 2020.

^ "Albuquerque Studios: Recent Productions". Albuquerque Studios. Archived from the original on June 6, 2020. Retrieved June 8, 2020.

^ "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie Cooks a Crystal-Clear Mix with Lectrosonics". Lectrosonics. November 5, 2019. Archived from the original on March 25, 2023. Retrieved June 6, 2023.

^ Brennan, Matt (October 14, 2019). "Being one of TV's best character actors suits Jesse Plemons just fine". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on February 14, 2022. Retrieved April 3, 2022.

^ a b Grouchnikov, Kirill (December 15, 2019). "Production design of "El Camino" – interview with Judy Rhee". Pushing Pixels. Archived from the original on July 12, 2021. Retrieved July 12, 2021.

^ Rowles, Dustin (February 2, 2019). "The 'Breaking Bad' Movie Is Currently Shooting in Familiar Locations". Uproxx. Archived from the original on April 29, 2020. Retrieved March 17, 2020.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (February 23, 2020). "'Better Call Saul' Season Premiere Recap: 'Magic Man'". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on February 24, 2020. Retrieved February 23, 2020.

^ Hedash, Kara (January 9, 2020). "Breaking Bad: Walter White's Bloody Handprint Was In El Camino". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on January 15, 2020. Retrieved February 24, 2020.

^ "Jesse Plemons and Aaron Paul Arrived in the Painted Desert via Vince Gilligan's Helicopter to Shoot a Pivotal 'El Camino' Scene". Yahoo!. November 1, 2019. Archived from the original on October 20, 2021. Retrieved October 20, 2021.

^ Fienberg, Daniel (April 6, 2020). "'Better Call Saul's' Vince Gilligan on the 'Bagman' Desert Shoot: "Just Pure Hell"". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 7, 2020. Retrieved June 15, 2020.

^ a b c d Clayton, Kyle (November 14, 2019). "Haines cameos in Breaking Bad movie". Chilkat Valley News. Archived from the original on April 28, 2020. Retrieved April 28, 2020.

^ a b c Snierson, Dan (October 15, 2019). "Vince Gilligan pays tribute to Robert Forster and how he did big little things in El Camino". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 22, 2019. Retrieved October 21, 2019.

^ a b McVey, Ciara (August 20, 2019). "Bob Odenkirk Teases 'Better Call Saul' Season 5: "Everything's on Fire and It's Burning Down Around Us"". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 21, 2019. Retrieved August 22, 2019.

^ Wigler, Josh (October 15, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Star on Secret 'El Camino' Role: "It Just Felt Classic"". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ Singh, Olivia (October 29, 2019). "Watch Aaron Paul transform into Jesse Pinkman for flashbacks in Netflix's 'Breaking Bad' film". Business Insider. Archived from the original on August 18, 2022. Retrieved August 23, 2023.

^ a b Chitwood, Adam (October 14, 2019). "'El Camino' Composer Dave Porter on Returning to the World of 'Breaking Bad'". Collider. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Goldberg, Lesley (November 6, 2018). "'Breaking Bad' Movie From Creator Vince Gilligan in the Works". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 19, 2019. Retrieved March 17, 2019.

^ Hall, Jacob (November 7, 2018). "Exclusive: The 'Breaking Bad' Movie Will Be a Sequel Following Jesse After the Series Finale, Aaron Paul to Return". /Film. Archived from the original on January 9, 2020. Retrieved January 21, 2020.

^ France, Lisa Respers (November 8, 2018). "Bryan Cranston confirms 'Breaking Bad' movie happening". CNN. Archived from the original on August 25, 2019. Retrieved March 17, 2019.

^ a b c d Sepinwall, Alan (October 14, 2019). "Bryan Cranston on 'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie'". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 14, 2019. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ Kiefer, Halle (June 9, 2019). "Hadestown, The Ferryman Lead 2019 Tony Award Winners". Vulture. Archived from the original on April 28, 2021. Retrieved July 14, 2021.

^ Blisten, Jon (October 21, 2019). "Watch Bryan Cranston Transform into Walter White in Less Than a Minute". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019. Retrieved October 22, 2019.

^ a b Keegan, Rebecca (October 14, 2019). "The Secrets Behind Bryan Cranston's Clandestine 'El Camino' Cameo". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 23, 2021. Retrieved August 23, 2021.

^ Harding, Laura (October 25, 2019). "Aaron Paul on El Camino: It's a proper way to say goodbye to Jesse Pinkman". The Irish News. Archived from the original on April 20, 2020. Retrieved October 26, 2019.

^ Ryan, Patrick (October 10, 2019). "Aaron Paul on making the top-secret 'Breaking Bad' movie: 'It felt like a 'Star Wars' set'". USA Today. Archived from the original on February 23, 2020. Retrieved April 19, 2020.

^ Weiss, Josh (October 16, 2019). "How Did 'El Camino' Stay Such A Secret? The Movie's Production Designer Has Answers". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 22, 2019. Retrieved August 7, 2021.

^ Fisher, Neil (August 17, 2019). "Aaron Paul interview – how drugs and crime paid off for the star of El Camino and Breaking Bad". The Times. Archived from the original on July 17, 2020. Retrieved March 28, 2022.

^ Welk, Brian (October 24, 2019). "Jesse Plemons Says He Would 'Lie to Strangers Repeatedly' About Filming 'El Camino'". TheWrap. Archived from the original on October 25, 2019. Retrieved October 26, 2019.

^ Goldberg, Lesley (February 13, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Movie Is a Sequel Starring Aaron Paul and Will Air on AMC and Netflix". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 22, 2019. Retrieved March 17, 2019.

^ Nyren, Erin (March 16, 2019). "Aaron Paul Addresses 'Breaking Bad' Movie Reports: 'It Has to Star Jesse'". Variety. Archived from the original on November 29, 2020. Retrieved August 3, 2021.

^ Gates, Christopher (March 9, 2020). "Actor Tony Dalton opens up about Better Call Saul – Exclusive interview". Looper.com. Archived from the original on March 16, 2020. Retrieved March 16, 2020.

^ a b Jacobsen, Jacob (June 15, 2020). "Skip Macdonald ('El Camino' editor) on the differences between 'Breaking Bad' and its sequel Netflix movie". Gold Derby. Archived from the original on June 16, 2020. Retrieved July 2, 2020.

^ Weintraub, Steve "Frosty" (October 13, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Was Originally 3 Hours Says Aaron Paul". Collider. Archived from the original on October 13, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Davenport, Khris 'Khal' (October 12, 2020). "Watch This Previously-Unreleased Scene From 'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie'". Complex Networks. Archived from the original on October 14, 2020. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ Russell, Bradley (October 18, 2019). "Aaron Paul on the El Camino deleted scene he "fought" to keep in the final movie". GamesRadar+. Archived from the original on November 24, 2020. Retrieved October 4, 2021.

^ Agar, Chris (October 13, 2020). "Jesse Hasn't Changed His Old Ways in El Camino Deleted Scene". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on October 14, 2020. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ Snierson, Dan (October 12, 2020). "Breaking Bad: El Camino alternate ending revealed where Jesse tries to propose to Jane". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 12, 2020. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ a b c Weiss, Josh (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino' Composer Cooks Up His Thoughts On Revisiting The 'Breaking Bad' Finale". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 13, 2019. Retrieved October 27, 2019.

^ Grobar, Matt (August 15, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Composer Dave Porter Unveils Music From AMC Series' Swan Song Season As Its Finale Looms – Hear The Exclusive Track". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on August 15, 2022. Retrieved August 16, 2022.

^ Russell, Bradley (June 5, 2020). "I am the one who rocks: El Camino's composer on bringing the Breaking Bad saga to a fitting end". GamesRadar+. Archived from the original on August 3, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.

^ O'Brien, Rebecca (May 13, 2020). "Looking at El Camino: An Interview with Dave Porter". Film Music Central. Archived from the original on January 28, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.

^ a b c Wood, Jennifer (October 15, 2019). "The Hidden Breaking Bad References in El Camino's Musical Score". Vulture. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 27, 2019.

^ a b Ames, Jeff (October 30, 2020). "CS Score: Bride of Frankenstein and El Camino's Dave Porter & Thomas Golubić". ComingSoon.net. Archived from the original on February 25, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.

^ a b c Burton, Bryan (June 23, 2020). "Dave Porter: The Musical Architect of Walter White and Saul Goodman". Awards Focus. Archived from the original on January 19, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.

^ Gartenberg, Ruby (October 31, 2019). "Dave Porter". Pop Disciple. Archived from the original on April 30, 2020. Retrieved April 30, 2020.

^ Kaye, Ben (October 12, 2020). "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie Soundtrack Gets First-Ever Release from Mondo". Consequence of Sound. Archived from the original on October 13, 2020. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ Sorren, Martha (October 11, 2019). "The El Camino Soundtrack Doesn't Overshadow Jesse's Journey". Refinery29. Archived from the original on April 30, 2020. Retrieved April 30, 2020.

^ Hough, Q.V. (October 11, 2019). "El Camino Soundtrack: Every Song In The Breaking Bad Movie". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019. Retrieved April 30, 2020.

^ Drury, Sharareh; Beresford, Trilby (August 24, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Movie Headed to Netflix This Fall, Teaser and Poster Released". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on September 28, 2019. Retrieved October 12, 2019.

^ Lattanzio, Ryan (August 24, 2019). "Netflix Reveals 'Breaking Bad' Movie, Release Date, First Clip". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 16, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ Roberts, Andrew (August 24, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Fans Weigh in on Upcoming Netflix Movie 'El Camino'". PopCulture.com. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Politi, Daniel (August 25, 2019). "Netflix Confirms Rumors: Breaking Bad Movie Will Be Released in October". Slate. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ a b Gemmill, Allie (August 24, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Release Date Announced in First Teaser". Collider. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Wigler, Josh (October 16, 2019). "'El Camino': 7 Questions After the 'Breaking Bad' Movie". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 25, 2019. Retrieved October 24, 2019.

^ Dwilson, Stephanie Dube (October 12, 2019). "'El Camino' Skinny Pete Missing Scene: What Happened?". Heavy. Archived from the original on October 13, 2019. Retrieved October 13, 2020.

^ Miller, Matt (September 10, 2019). "This New Song For Breaking Bad Movie El Camino Is a Subtle Hint at Jesse Pinkman's Most Defining Moment". Esquire. Archived from the original on September 11, 2019. Retrieved June 12, 2020.

^ Sharf, Zack (September 10, 2019). "Prepare for the 'Breaking Bad' Movie With Netflix's Unbearable Supercut of Jesse Pinkman's Pain". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019. Retrieved October 21, 2019.

^ Patches, Matt (September 22, 2019). "The teaser for Netflix's Breaking Bad sequel El Camino recalls gruesome details". Polygon. Archived from the original on November 17, 2019. Retrieved September 22, 2019.

^ Welk, Brian (September 24, 2019). "'El Camino' Trailer: Aaron Paul's Jesse Pinkman Is 'Ready' in First Full Look at 'Breaking Bad' Movie". TheWrap. Archived from the original on September 24, 2019. Retrieved September 24, 2019.

^ Agar, Chris (September 24, 2019). "Breaking Bad Movie Trailer Song (& What It Means For El Camino)". Screen Rant. Archived from the original on July 24, 2021. Retrieved December 23, 2023.

^ Evangelista, Chris (September 29, 2019). "The Latest 'El Camino' Teaser Brings Back Another 'Breaking Bad' Character". /Film. Archived from the original on October 1, 2019. Retrieved April 28, 2020.

^ Ferguson, LaToya (October 10, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie': Netflix Drops Behind the Scenes Featurette". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 10, 2019. Retrieved October 21, 2019.

^ Jussim, Matthew (October 30, 2019). "Go Behind the Scenes of the Making of 'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' in New Netflix Documentary". Men's Journal. Archived from the original on February 25, 2020. Retrieved February 24, 2020.

^ a b c d Gallagher, Caitlin (October 10, 2019). "The 'El Camino' Cast Is Full Of Your 'Breaking Bad' Faves". Bustle. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ "The Countdown to El Camino launches on Samsung TV Plus". Samsung. October 9, 2019. Archived from the original on October 16, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Nudd, Tim (December 16, 2019). "The Year in Creativity, 2019 – Part 1". Muse by Clio. Archived from the original on December 17, 2019. Retrieved May 5, 2020.

^ a b Singh, Olivia (October 11, 2019). "12 'Breaking Bad' stars who returned for Netflix's sequel movie 'El Camino'". Business Insider. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ a b McNear, Claire (October 15, 2019). "Ranking the Cameos From 'Breaking Bad' and 'Better Call Saul' in 'El Camino'". The Ringer. Archived from the original on October 25, 2019. Retrieved October 25, 2019.

^ Thoman, Lauren (October 14, 2019). "El Camino's biggest unanswered questions". Looper.com. Archived from the original on October 14, 2019. Retrieved October 14, 2019.

^ "Waiting With Huell". Shorty Awards. May 3, 2020. Archived from the original on April 13, 2020. Retrieved May 5, 2020.

^ "Waiting With Huell". Clio Awards. April 28, 2021. Archived from the original on May 9, 2021. Retrieved May 9, 2021.

^ Dick, Jeremy (February 17, 2020). "Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short Gives Us More of Todd from El Camino". MovieWeb. Archived from the original on February 18, 2020. Retrieved February 18, 2020.

^ "Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short | El Camino". AMC. February 16, 2020. Archived from the original on October 18, 2022. Retrieved October 19, 2022 – via YouTube.

^ Shoemaker, Allison (February 21, 2020). "Todd makes a "Snow Globe" in this new Breaking Bad short". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on February 22, 2020. Retrieved April 28, 2020.

^ Ehrlich, Brenna (February 21, 2020). "'Breaking Bad' Gifts Us a Todd-Centric Short Before 'Saul' Season Premiere". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on March 6, 2020. Retrieved April 29, 2020.

^ Rowles, Dustin (February 2, 2020). "A Brand New 'Breaking Bad' Short Gives Todd's Snow Globe An Origin Story". Uproxx. Archived from the original on February 20, 2020. Retrieved April 29, 2020.

^ Seth, Radhika (October 24, 2019). "Breaking Bad's Aaron Paul on El Camino, alternate endings and shooting in secret". Vogue India. Archived from the original on December 30, 2020. Retrieved April 17, 2022.

^ Venable, Nick (February 19, 2020). "New Breaking Bad Video Reveals The Story Behind Todd's Creepiest Snow Globe". CinemaBlend. Archived from the original on July 19, 2021. Retrieved July 19, 2021.

^ "Netflix hosts 'El Camino' premiere in California". KRQE. October 7, 2019. Archived from the original on October 10, 2019. Retrieved October 10, 2019.

^ Sharf, Zack (September 18, 2019). "Netflix Sets 'Breaking Bad' Movie Theatrical Release for One Weekend Only". IndieWire. Archived from the original on September 20, 2019. Retrieved September 18, 2019.

^ Mitovich, Matt Webb (January 7, 2020). "Breaking Bad Movie Gets AMC Premiere Date, Following a Full Series Marathon". TVLine. Archived from the original on January 8, 2020. Retrieved January 7, 2020.

^ Saperstein, Pat (October 11, 2019). "Robert Forster, Oscar-Nommed Star of 'Jackie Brown,' Dies at 78". Variety. Archived from the original on March 3, 2021. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ Haring, Bruce (October 11, 2019). "Robert Forster Saluted For His Acting Skill And Personal Warmth in Online Tributes". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ Andreeva, Nellie; Patten, Dominic (October 12, 2019). "Aaron Paul Remembers 'El Camino' Co-Star Robert Forster". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 12, 2019.

^ Power, Tom (October 18, 2019). "Aaron Paul says El Camino really is the end for Jesse Pinkman". Polygon. Archived from the original on October 19, 2019. Retrieved October 18, 2019.

^ a b Porter, Rick (October 17, 2019). "'El Camino' Draws Solid Opening-Weekend Viewing, Nielsen Says". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Thorne, Will (October 17, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Scores 6.5 Million Viewers Across First Weekend". Variety. Archived from the original on October 17, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Bibel, Sara (August 13, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Night, 'True Blood', 'Low Winter Sun', 'Devious Maids', 'Dexter', 'The Newsroom' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on June 10, 2016. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Bibel, Sara (October 1, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Big, 'Talking Bad', 'Homeland', 'Boardwalk Empire','Masters of Sex' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 24, 2013. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Snierson, Dan (October 23, 2019). "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie watched by 25 million-plus households in first week". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 23, 2019. Retrieved October 23, 2019.

^ Fuster, Jeremy (October 17, 2019). "'El Camino' Might Have Beaten 'Joker' at Weekend Box Office If Released in Theaters Nationwide". TheWrap. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Metcalf, Mitch (February 19, 2020). "Updated: ShowBuzzDaily's Top 150 Sunday Cable Originals & Network Finals: 2.16.2020". Showbuzz Daily. Archived from the original on September 10, 2019. Retrieved February 28, 2020.

^ Prange, Stephane (August 26, 2020). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Blu-ray Combo Pack Steelbook Due Oct. 13". Media Play News. Archived from the original on August 26, 2020. Retrieved August 26, 2020.

^ "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango Media. Archived from the original on October 16, 2019. Retrieved July 16, 2023. 

^ "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Metacritic. Fandom, Inc. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved February 19, 2021. 

^ Berman, Judy (October 11, 2019). "Review: El Camino Transforms Breaking Bad's Jesse Pinkman Into an Action Hero for the Ages". Time. Archived from the original on February 23, 2020. Retrieved October 15, 2019.

^ Miller, Liz Shannon (October 11, 2019). "El Camino adds no redemption to Breaking Bad, but ups the insight into Jesse Pinkman". The Verge. Archived from the original on April 7, 2020. Retrieved April 25, 2020.

^ Levesley, David (October 11, 2019). "El Camino takes Breaking Bad and makes it... just bad". GQ. Archived from the original on February 2, 2020. Retrieved May 4, 2020.

^ a b Fienberg, Daniel (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie': TV Review". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ a b Franich, Darren (October 11, 2019). "El Camino is the Breaking Bad finale for everyone who thought Jesse got a raw deal". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Adams, Erik (October 11, 2019). "El Camino proves that Breaking Bad still has some twists and turns in it". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Review: Fan Service Firing on All Cylinders". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 14, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Leon, Melissa (October 14, 2019). "Aaron Paul on Jesse Pinkman's 'Heartbreaking' Reunion With Walter White in 'El Camino'". The Daily Beast. Archived from the original on October 15, 2019. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ Greene, Steve (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino' Review: A Riveting Goodbye to 'Breaking Bad'". IndieWire. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ Sancto, Roxanne (October 12, 2019). "Review: El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". Little White Lies. Archived from the original on January 5, 2020. Retrieved April 26, 2020.

^ Spiegel, Josh (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Review: Well-Executed, But Unnecessary". /Film. Archived from the original on December 7, 2019. Retrieved April 27, 2020.

^ Montgomery, Hugh (October 11, 2019). "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie is a Colossal Waste of Time". BBC. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 12, 2019.

^ Wilkinson, Alissa (October 13, 2019). "In El Camino, a desperate Jesse Pinkman tries to break free of Breaking Bad". Vox. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Tallerico, Blake (October 11, 2019). "Review: El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie". RogerEbert.com. Archived from the original on April 12, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ Roeper, Richard (October 11, 2019). "'El Camino' movie on Netflix lives up to 'Breaking Bad' standards". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on November 22, 2019. Retrieved April 26, 2020.

^ Rizov, Vadim (October 16, 2019). "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie review – a tele-finale for old fans' sake". Sight & Sound. Archived from the original on October 17, 2019. Retrieved April 26, 2020.

^ Montgomery, Daniel (December 30, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' is the odds-on favorite to win at Critics' Choice Awards despite Aaron Paul's snub". Gold Derby. Archived from the original on November 5, 2021. Retrieved November 10, 2021.

^ Montgomery, Daniel (January 18, 2020). "'El Camino' expected to give the 'Breaking Bad'-verse its third PGA Award". Gold Derby. Archived from the original on November 2, 2021. Retrieved November 10, 2021.

^ Andreeva, Nellie (July 28, 2020). "'Breaking Bad' Prequel & Sequel Score Emmy Noms As 'Better Call Saul' & 'El Camino' Both Vie For Top Prizes". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on August 18, 2020. Retrieved November 10, 2020.

^ a b Boucher, Geoff; Ramos, Dino-Ray (January 12, 2020). "Critics' Choice Awards: 'Once Upon A Time In Hollywood' Wins Best Picture, Netflix And HBO Among Top Honorees – Full Winners List". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on February 16, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ a b Ramos, Dino-Ray (January 19, 2020). "MPSE Golden Reel Awards: 'Ford V Ferrari', '1917', 'Parasite', 'The Mandalorian' Among Winners". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on February 26, 2021. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ a b "2019 Winners". International Press Academy. December 19, 2019. Archived from the original on December 19, 2019. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ a b "2020 Primetime Emmy® Awards – Nomination Press Release" (PDF). Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. July 28, 2020. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 28, 2020. Retrieved July 28, 2020.

^ Feinberg, Scott (July 24, 2020). "Feinberg Forecast: Final Projections Ahead of Tuesday's Emmy Nominations". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 4, 2020. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ Hibberd, James (July 28, 2020). "Emmy nominations snubs and surprises 2020". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 30, 2021. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ Agard, Chancellor (September 9, 2017). "How many Emmys did Breaking Bad win?". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on May 30, 2021. Retrieved November 2, 2021.

^ Hammond, Pete (September 10, 2020). "Emmy Predictions 2020: Outstanding Television Movie – Netflix Has Four Of Five Nominees Including 'El Camino' But Is This Breaking 'Bad Education' For HBO?". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on September 10, 2020. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ Roush, Matt (September 16, 2020). "2020 Emmy Predictions for Limited Series & Movies: Matt Roush's Picks". TV Insider. Archived from the original on September 19, 2020. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ a b Greene, Steve (September 20, 2020). "'SNL,' Dave Chappelle, and 'Maisel' Top List of Creative Arts Emmys' Final Night Winners". IndieWire. Archived from the original on September 21, 2020. Retrieved September 21, 2020.

^ Giardina, Carolyn (January 25, 2020). "'Ford v Ferrari' Finishes First at Cinema Audio Society Awards". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on April 7, 2022. Retrieved August 31, 2022.

^ "56th CAS Awards Winners". Cinema Audio Society. February 16, 2020. Archived from the original on March 6, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ Schwartz, Ryan; Caruso, Nick (December 8, 2019). "Critics' Choice Awards 2020: Fleabag, Watchmen, When They See Us, Unbelievable Among TV Nominees". TVLine. Archived from the original on December 9, 2019. Retrieved December 8, 2019.

^ a b "DGA Announces 2019 Awards Nominees for: Movies for Television & Limited Series; Variety/Talk/News/Sports – Regularly Scheduled Programming; Reality Programs; Children's Programs; Commercials; and Documentary". Directors Guild of America. January 6, 2020. Archived from the original on January 11, 2020. Retrieved January 6, 2020.

^ THR Staff (January 25, 2020). "DGA Awards: Sam Mendes and '1917' Win Best Feature Film". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on February 10, 2020. Retrieved November 2, 2021.

^ Lattanzio, Ryan (December 16, 2019). "'Joker,' 'Once Upon a Time in Hollywood' Dominate Sound Editors' Golden Reel Noms". IndieWire. Archived from the original on August 2, 2021. Retrieved October 29, 2021.

^ Hammond, Pete (August 6, 2020). "Emmys: Television Academy Spreads 72nd Awards Presentations Over Six Nights In September, Reduces Number Of Primetime Categories". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on January 30, 2021. Retrieved October 1, 2021.

^ "Nominations Announced in Motion Pictures and Television Programs Categories – 2020 Awards". Producers Guild of America. January 7, 2020. Archived from the original on January 13, 2020. Retrieved January 7, 2020.

^ Crist, Allison; Keegan, Rebecca; Gardner, Chris; Howard, Annie (January 18, 2020). "PGA Awards: '1917' Named Outstanding Motion Picture". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 22, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ "International Press Academy – The 24th Annual Satellite Awards" (PDF). Satellite Awards. December 2, 2019. Archived (PDF) from the original on December 3, 2019. Retrieved December 4, 2019.

^ Hipes, Patrick (March 4, 2021). "Saturn Awards Nominations: 'Star Wars: Rise Of Skywalker', 'Tenet', 'Walking Dead', 'Outlander' Lead List". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on March 7, 2021. Retrieved March 7, 2021.

^ Tartaglione, Nancy (October 27, 2021). "Saturn Awards Winners: 'Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker' Leads With Five Prizes – Full List". Deadline Hollywood. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 27, 2021.

^ McNary, Dave (December 5, 2019). "Writers Guild Unveils 2020 TV Award Nominees". Variety. Archived from the original on December 5, 2019. Retrieved December 5, 2019.

^ Beresford, Trilby; Crist, Allison; Chuba, Kirsten; Lewis, Hilary (February 1, 2020). "WGA Awards: 'Parasite' and 'JoJo Rabbit' Among Film Winners". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 10, 2020. Retrieved April 16, 2020.

^ a b Brow, Jason; Swan, Allison (October 8, 2019). "Aaron Paul Reveals Whether Or Not He Thinks There Will Be More 'Breaking Bad' To Come After 'El Camino'". Hollywood Life. Archived from the original on January 25, 2022. Retrieved March 28, 2022.

^ Samadder, Rhik (October 6, 2019). "Aaron Paul: 'Breaking Bad changed my life'". The Guardian. Archived from the original on July 29, 2021. Retrieved August 3, 2021.

^ a b Schneider, Michael (August 8, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Co-Creator Vince Gilligan on Kim's Brush With 'Breaking Bad' and Setting the Finale Stage". Variety. Archived from the original on August 9, 2022. Retrieved August 9, 2022.

^ Moreau, Jordan (August 1, 2022). "How 'Better Caul Saul' Brought Back [SPOILERS] and Why the Director Didn't De-Age Them". Variety. Archived from the original on August 2, 2022. Retrieved August 2, 2022.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (August 8, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Recap: Better Call Kim". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on August 9, 2022. Retrieved August 9, 2022.

^ Davids, Brian (August 19, 2022). "Aaron Paul Bids Farewell to Jesse Pinkman and Explains Why He Can't Watch His 'Westworld' Showcase Episode". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on August 19, 2022. Retrieved August 19, 2022.


External links[edit]
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie at IMDb 
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie on Netflix 
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie at AllMovie
Awards for El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
vteCritics' Choice Television Award for Best Limited Series or MovieMovie or Miniseries  (2011–2013, 2016)
Sherlock (2012)
Behind the Candelabra (2013)
Fargo, season 2 (2016)
The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story (2016)
Movie  (2014–2015, 2017–present)
The Normal Heart (2014)
Bessie (2015)
The Wizard of Lies (2017)
Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert (2018)
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019)
Hamilton (2020)
Oslo (2021)
Weird: The Al Yankovic Story (2022)
Quiz Lady (2023)
Limited Series  (2014–2015, 2017–present)
Fargo (season 1) (2014)
Olive Kitteridge (2015)
Big Little Lies (2017)
The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story (2018)
When They See Us (2019)
The Queen's Gambit (2020)
Mare of Easttown (2021)
The Dropout (2022)
Beef (2023)

vteSatellite Award for Best Television Film1999–2010
Strange Justice (1999)
Harlan County War (2000)
The Day Reagan Was Shot (2001)
Door to Door (2002)
Rudy: The Rudy Giuliani Story (2003)
Redemption: The Stan Tookie Williams Story (2004)
Reefer Madness (2005)
A Little Thing Called Murder (2006)
Mitch Albom's For One More Day (2007)
Filth: The Mary Whitehouse Story (2008)
Grey Gardens (2009)
Temple Grandin (2010)
2014–2015
Return to Zero (2014)
Stockholm, Pennsylvania (2015)
2017–2022
The Wizard of Lies (2017)
The Tale (2018)
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019)
The Clark Sisters: First Ladies of Gospel (2020)
Oslo (2021)
Weird: The Al Yankovic Story (2022)
Between 1996–1998, 2011–2013, 2016 and 2023–present, the category was merged with Best Miniseries and Limited Series
or Television Film.
vteBreaking BadEpisodesSeason 1
"Pilot"
"Cat's in the Bag..."
"...And the Bag's in the River"
"Cancer Man"
"Gray Matter"
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"
Season 2
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
"Grilled"
"Bit by a Dead Bee"
"Down"
"Breakage"
"Peekaboo"
"Negro y Azul"
"Better Call Saul"
"4 Days Out"
"Over"
"Mandala"
"Phoenix"
"ABQ"
Season 3
"No Más"
"Caballo sin Nombre"
"I.F.T."
"Green Light"
"Más"
"Sunset"
"One Minute"
"I See You"
"Kafkaesque"
"Fly"
"Abiquiu"
"Half Measures"
"Full Measure"
Season 4
"Box Cutter"
"Thirty-Eight Snub"
"Open House"
"Bullet Points"
"Shotgun"
"Cornered"
"Problem Dog"
"Hermanos"
"Bug"
"Salud"
"Crawl Space"
"End Times"
"Face Off"
Season 5Part 1
"Live Free or Die"
"Madrigal"
"Hazard Pay"
"Fifty-One"
"Dead Freight"
"Buyout"
"Say My Name"
"Gliding Over All"
Part 2
"Blood Money"
"Buried"
"Confessions"
"Rabid Dog"
"To'hajiilee"
"Ozymandias"
"Granite State"
"Felina"
Characters
Walter White
Skyler White
Jesse Pinkman
Hank Schrader
Marie Schrader
Walter White Jr.
Saul Goodman
Gus Fring
Mike Ehrmantraut
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Better Call Saul
"Breaking Bad"
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Metástasis
Talking Bad
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Baby Blue"
Faking Bad
Spiralix heisenbergi
"What Animated Women Want"
"Pickle Rick"
"Plug Walk"
"Celebrity Booze: The Ultimate Cash Grab"

 Category
 WikiQuote
 WikiCommons

vteBetter Call SaulEpisodesSeason 1
"Uno"
"Mijo"
"Nacho"
"Hero"
"Alpine Shepherd Boy"
"Five-O"
"Bingo"
"RICO"
"Pimento"
"Marco"
Season 2
"Switch"
"Cobbler"
"Amarillo"
"Gloves Off"
"Rebecca"
"Bali Ha'i"
"Inflatable"
"Fifi"
"Nailed"
"Klick"
Season 3
"Mabel"
"Witness"
"Sunk Costs"
"Sabrosito"
"Chicanery"
"Off Brand"
"Expenses"
"Slip"
"Fall"
"Lantern"
Season 4
"Smoke"
"Breathe"
"Something Beautiful"
"Talk"
"Quite a Ride"
"Piñata"
"Something Stupid"
"Coushatta"
"Wiedersehen"
"Winner"
Season 5
"Magic Man"
"50% Off"
"The Guy for This"
"Namaste"
"Dedicado a Max"
"Wexler v. Goodman"
"JMM"
"Bagman"
"Bad Choice Road"
"Something Unforgivable"
Season 6Part 1
"Wine and Roses"
"Carrot and Stick"
"Rock and Hard Place"
"Hit and Run"
"Black and Blue"
"Axe and Grind"
"Plan and Execution"
Part 2
"Point and Shoot"
"Fun and Games"
"Nippy"
"Breaking Bad"
"Waterworks"
"Saul Gone"
Characters
Jimmy McGill
Mike Ehrmantraut
Kim Wexler
Chuck McGill
Howard Hamlin
Nacho Varga
Gus Fring
Lalo Salamanca
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Breaking Bad ("Better Call Saul")
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Talking Saul
Slippin' Jimmy
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Address Unknown"

 Category





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=El_Camino:_A_Breaking_Bad_Movie&oldid=1224673220"




This  article describes a work or element of fiction in a primarily in-universe style. Please help rewrite it to explain the fiction more clearly and provide non-fictional perspective. (April 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Breaking Bad is a neo-Western crime drama franchise about a chemist and a young man, created by American filmmaker Vince Gilligan, primarily based on the television series Breaking Bad (2008–13), its prequel/sequel series, Better Call Saul (2015–22), its sequel film, El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019), as well as other types of media. The following is an abridged list of characters from all three.


Main characters[edit]
Cast table[edit]


Character

Portrayed by

Breaking Bad

Better Call Saul

Film

Total


1

2

3

4

5a

5b

1

2

3

4

5

6


Walter White / Heisenberg

Bryan Cranston

Main

Does not appear

SA

C

65


Skyler White

Anna Gunn

Main

Does not appear

62


Jesse Pinkman

Aaron Paul

Main

Does not appear

SA

M

65


Hank Schrader

Dean Norris

Main

Does not appear

SG

Does not appear

53


Marie Schrader

Betsy Brandt

Main

Does not appear

SA

Does not appear

52


Walter White Jr.

RJ Mitte

Main

Does not appear

54


Gus Fring

Giancarlo Esposito



G

Main

Does not appear

Main



59


Jimmy McGill / Saul Goodman

Bob Odenkirk

Does not appear

R

Main

Does not appear

99


Mike Ehrmantraut

Jonathan Banks

Does not appear

G

Main

Does not appear

Main

C

85


Lydia Rodarte-Quayle

Laura Fraser

Does not appear

R

M

Does not appear

Guest

Does not appear

13


Todd Alquist

Jesse Plemons

Does not appear

R

M

Does not appear

S

12


Kim Wexler

Rhea Seehorn

Does not appear

Main

Does not appear

60


Howard Hamlin

Patrick Fabian

Does not appear

Main

Does not appear

43


Nacho Varga

Michael Mando

Does not appear

Main

Does not appear

33


Chuck McGill

Michael McKean

Does not appear

Main

R

Does not appear

SA

Does not appear

28


Lalo Salamanca

Tony Dalton

Does not appear

R

Main

Does not appear

16

Introduced in Breaking Bad[edit]
Walter White[edit]
Main article: Walter White (Breaking Bad)
Bryan Cranston
Walter Hartwell White (also known by his alias Heisenberg) (played by Bryan Cranston) is an overqualified high school chemistry teacher from Albuquerque, New Mexico. After being diagnosed with lung cancer, he starts manufacturing methamphetamine to provide for his family upon his death. Knowing nothing about the drug trade, he enlists the aid of his former student, Jesse Pinkman, to sell the meth he produces. Walter's scientific knowledge and dedication to quality leads him to produce crystal meth that is purer and more potent than any competitors'. To avoid the tedious collection of pseudoephedrine required for production, Walter devises an alternative chemical process utilizing methylamine, giving his product a distinctive blue color. His methamphetamine, which is given the street name "Blue Sky", dominates the market, leading to confrontations with established drug makers and dealers.
Walter is initially opposed to the use of violence, but gradually comes to see it as a necessity. He also comes to find his new status as a drug lord psychologically rewarding, leading him to become increasingly willing to resort to criminal acts such as theft, extortion, money laundering, depraved indifference, and murder. Walter's descent, Macbeth-like,[1] into the criminal underworld unearths immense levels of deeply repressed ambition, rage, resentment, vanity, and an increasing ruthlessness which alienates him from his family and colleagues.

Skyler White[edit]
Main article: Skyler White
Anna Gunn
Skyler White (née Lambert) (played by Anna Gunn) is Walter's wife. She has had several meager sources of income: writing short stories, selling items on eBay, working as a bookkeeper, and ultimately helping her husband launder money. Skyler and Walter have a son, Walter Jr., and an infant daughter, Holly. Skyler and Walt's marriage becomes increasingly strained due to his unexplained absences and bizarre behavior, ultimately leading to their separation. In season 3, she deduces that Walter is a drug dealer, resolving to divorce him and keep him away from their children. Yet, when Walter implores her to understand his reasons for manufacturing meth, Skyler relents in her opposition to his presence within their home. She also begins getting involved in Walter's criminal life, using his money to pay for her brother-in-law Hank's medical bills following an attack on his life. After meeting Saul Goodman, Skyler concocts a plan to feasibly launder Walter's money through a car wash where he had recently worked part time. The plan is successful, and in seasons 4 and 5, Skyler launders Walter's money through the car wash, though she remains deeply unhappy about their situation. In the final 2 seasons, she becomes increasingly fearful of Walter given that he is slowly becoming more of a hardened criminal. After Walter kills Gus Fring, Skyler's fears are fully realized, and she attempts to distance their children from her and Walter, staging a suicide attempt so that Hank and her sister Marie will temporarily take their children in. She tells Walter that she will be a complicit partner in whatever capacity so long as their children are not living with them. When Walter quits the drug business, he and Skyler begin rebuilding their relationship and their family life until Hank discovers Walt is Heisenberg. When in the episode "Buried", Skyler's DEA brother-in-law Hank tells her he is on to Walt but needs her help to provide sufficient evidence to build a successful case, Skyler replies that she needs a lawyer and later tells Walt they should remain quiet. When Hank is killed, she and Walter fight, and he abducts Holly. Walter uses this as a chance to exonerate Skyler in the eyes of the law, absolving her of any complicity during his drug operations. She is permitted to keep their children; however, she is told that she must find valuable information for the authorities to use against Walter. In the series finale, Walter visits Skyler a final time, admitting to her that his meth business was for him rather than the family; he provides her with the coordinates of Hank and Steve Gomez's whereabouts, imploring her to use them as her escape from his ordeal.
In the episode "Breaking Bad" of Better Call Saul, Skyler is mentioned to have gotten a successful plea deal with the prosecutors.

Jesse Pinkman[edit]
Main article: Jesse Pinkman
Aaron Paul
Jesse Bruce Pinkman (played by Aaron Paul) is a small-time methamphetamine user, manufacturer, and dealer. In high school, he was an indifferent student in Walter White's chemistry class. Now in his mid-20s, Jesse is Walt's business partner in the meth trade. Jesse is impulsive, hedonistic, and uneducated beyond high school, but he is financially ambitious and streetwise. He talks in playful slang, likes to wear garish clothing that follow the latest trends in youth culture, plays video games, listens to rap and rock music, takes recreational drugs, and drives lowriders. Walt treats Jesse like a foolish son in constant need of stern correction. Jesse's own family kicked him out of their house because of his drug use. Despite the friction between them, he and Walt have a deep bond of loyalty. As a result of his relationship with Walt, Jesse becomes an excellent meth cook, ultimately leading others to exploit him. Despite his criminal lifestyle, Jesse is far more empathetic than Walt. He is horrified by the brutality at the higher levels of the drug trade particularly during later seasons, but remains involved with Walt out of necessity and loyalty. He is very protective of children; his desire to keep children out of the violent drug world gives rise to several key events throughout the series. He wrestles with feelings of guilt about the deaths, all drug-related, of people he has been associated with. Towards the end of the fifth season he is overwhelmed by guilt and his "blood money." Realizing how much pain he has caused for money leads him to attempt to give bundles of cash from his final payoff to people he knows and then throw them from his car window onto random lawns and porches. In El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, Jesse departs for a new life in Alaska.

Hank Schrader[edit]
Main article: Hank Schrader
Dean Norris
Henry R. Schrader (played by Dean Norris) is Walt and Skyler's brother-in-law and Marie's husband, who works as a U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) agent. He is involved in investigating a meth dealer known as "Heisenberg", unaware for over a year that his prey is actually Walter. Hank has a cavalier exterior, but in reality the dark side of his job affects him more than he cares to admit leading him to suffer from anxiety and post-traumatic stress. In the course of his work, Hank is promoted to El Paso, Texas from Albuquerque for a short time but experiences a traumatic event and moves back to Albuquerque. Despite his brashness, Hank is highly competent at his job and cares deeply about his family. Hank is eventually promoted to Assistant Special Agent in Charge of the DEA in Albuquerque but is still determined to solve the "Heisenberg" case, which ultimately leads to his demise.
Hank also had guest appearances in the fifth season of Better Call Saul. When Domingo "Krazy-8" Molina is arrested, Jimmy McGill bargains with Hank to make Domingo his confidential informant, which allows Lalo Salamanca to feed information on Gus Fring's operations to the DEA.

Marie Schrader[edit]
Main article: Marie Schrader
Betsy Brandt
Marie Schrader (née Lambert) (played by Betsy Brandt) is Skyler's sister, Hank's wife, and Walt's sister-in-law. Marie works as a radiologic technologist. She does not hesitate to offer advice to others but often fails to practice what she preaches. She shoplifts compulsively—apparently a manifest symptom of kleptomania—a behavior for which she sees a therapist. She appears self-centered and shallow but cares deeply for her husband and her sister's family. Nearly all of her household and clothing items are shades of the color purple.
In Season 3, Marie becomes a major source of comfort and support for Hank, when The Cousins shoot and nearly kill him. With Walt and Skyler's help, she arranges for Hank to undergo an aggressive physical therapy program their insurance does not cover. When Hank stubbornly decides to stay at the hospital, claiming he is completely disabled, she refuses to give up on him and gives him a handjob to prove he still has feeling below the waist. When he returns home, however, Hank remains cold and brash, despite her attempts to make him comfortable, and Marie spirals back into kleptomania. Once Hank progresses with the case, his relationship with Marie improves again. When Walt and Skyler have marital problems, she takes in their children for a couple of days at Skyler's request while they work things out.
In the final season, Hank tells Marie about Walter's criminal activities, and Marie confronts Skyler. When she learns Skyler knew the truth before Hank's shooting, Marie slaps her sister and storms out of the room. She tries to take Holly with her, but Hank commands her to return the baby. She then urges Hank to capture Walter. Marie helps Hank try to stop Walt and Skyler, but Walt foils them when he makes a DVD framing and blackmailing Hank. Marie eagerly offers to help Hank when Jesse agrees to confess about Walt's crimes. She initially does not know that Hank is dead and reconciles with Skyler on the condition that the latter tells Walt Jr. everything. Marie learns that Hank is missing when Walt kidnaps Holly and eventually she receives confirmation he has died. She is later seen two months later in her house, warning Skyler to watch out for Walt.
Marie reappears in the series finale of Better Call Saul, present as a witness in the trial of Saul Goodman. Prior to the trial, she castigates Saul for his role in Walt's crimes and the deaths of Hank and Steve, but Saul claims to have been coerced to work for Walt under threat of death. Saul later reverses course during the trial by admitting he willingly helped Walt expand his criminal empire.

Walter White Jr.[edit]
Main article: Walter White Jr.
RJ Mitte
Walter Hartwell White Jr. (played by RJ Mitte) is Walter and Skyler's teenage son and Holly's older brother. He has cerebral palsy, as manifested in speech difficulties and impaired motor control, for which he uses crutches (which Mitte, who has a milder variation of cerebral palsy, does not require[2]). Angered by his parents' constant fighting, Walter Jr. tries to establish an independent identity, insisting on being called Flynn and asking his best friend Louis to teach him how to drive. When he discovers that Walt has cancer, Walter Jr. changes his attitude and sets up a website, "www.savewalterwhite.com", which requests and collects donations in an effort to help pay for Walt's cancer treatment. Walt's lawyer, Saul Goodman, arranges for a wave of fictional "donations" drawn from Walter's drug money, in order to launder it and also make Walter Jr.'s efforts appear successful. When Skyler and Walt separate, Walter Jr., given no explanation by either parent, only sees that his mother has (from his point of view) inexplicably thrown his terminally ill father out of the house, and he takes his father's side and stops answering to the name Flynn. Always being "late to the game" (as defined by Mitte on an episode of Talking Bad), Walter Jr. remains oblivious to his father's drug trade life until "Ozymandias", when Marie, confident that Walt is in Hank's custody, forces Skyler to reveal the whole truth to her son. Upon learning of his father's connection with Hank's death, Walter Jr. mistakenly concludes that Walt killed Hank. Feeling betrayed, Jr. calls 911 when Walt fends off Skyler's knife attack, thus forcing Walt to leave and eventually end up on the most wanted list. In "Granite State", Walt attempts to talk to him over the phone and have him retrieve $100,000 that Walt planned to send to Louis's address; however, Walter Jr. angrily refuses and hangs up. In "Felina", Walt visits Skyler for the final time, and watches from afar as Walter Jr. returns to the safe house from school.


Saul Goodman[edit]
Main article: Saul Goodman
Bob Odenkirk
Saul Goodman (played by Bob Odenkirk), real name James Morgan McGill, is a sleazy and unscrupulous lawyer who acts as Walter and Jesse's attorney and provides some of the series' comic relief. He uses the name "Saul Goodman" because he thinks his clients feel more confident with a Jewish lawyer; this name is also homophonous with the expression "[it]'s all good, man."[3] Dressing in flashy suits, Saul maintains extensive connections within the criminal underworld and serves as a go-between connecting drug distributors, fixers, impersonators, and other criminals-for-hire. Despite his flamboyant appearance and mannerisms—punctuated by his outrageously low-budget TV commercials—Saul is a highly competent lawyer who is able to solve problems and find loopholes in order to protect his clients. He is also reluctant to be associated with violence or murder.
Saul's origins are explored in Better Call Saul, taking place about six years before Breaking Bad. Originally a con man nicknamed "Slippin' Jimmy", he had been arrested in Chicago after a prank gone wrong, but his older brother Chuck McGill, a partner in an Albuquerque law firm, obtained his release on the condition that Jimmy obtain legitimate employment. Jimmy worked in the mailroom of Chuck's firm, and Chuck's legal success inspired Jimmy to become an attorney himself. Chuck did not consider Jimmy a "real" lawyer and surreptitiously conspired to prevent him from joining his firm, relegating Jimmy to low-level cases and public defender work. After Chuck's death and Jimmy's yearlong suspension of his law license, Jimmy returned to practice under the "Saul Goodman" alias, drawing on the criminal clientele he had gained through his side business of selling disposable cell phones. During the period of his law license suspension, Jimmy's side business causes him to inadvertently become involved in the Albuquerque drug business as an associate of Mike and a legal representative for the Salamanca family.
By the time of Breaking Bad, Saul has established an office in a strip mall and advertises across the city. When Walter and Jesse begin producing meth, Saul introduces them to Gus as a potential buyer for their product. He subsequently helps Walter and Skyler launder their drug money, and provides legal assistance for Jesse and his drug-dealing friends. After Hank discovers Walter's identity as Heisenberg, Saul uses the "disappearing" services of Ed Galbraith to relocate to Omaha, Nebraska under the name Gene Takavic (as shown in flash-forwards in Better Call Saul), where he runs a Cinnabon store while remaining paranoid that someone from his past might identify him. Gene is eventually identified by a relocated taxi cab driver who remembers his Saul Goodman ads, but Saul keeps the man quiet by offering to make him wealthy using a con scheme. Saul was eventually caught by the authorities and imprisoned for 86 years in a federal prison, but after finally accepting himself as Jimmy McGill and atoning for his role in the deaths of Chuck, Howard, and others.

Gus Fring[edit]
Main article: Gus Fring
Giancarlo Esposito
Gustavo Fring (played by Giancarlo Esposito) is the Chilean-born proprietor of Los Pollos Hermanos, a highly successful fried chicken restaurant chain. He is also a public booster for the local DEA office and a member of the hospital board. Despite outward appearances, Gus is a major drug kingpin initially affiliated with the Mexican drug cartel in Ciudad Juárez, who use his restaurants as a front for methamphetamine distribution throughout the American southwest, supported by Los Pollos' corporate owners, Madrigal Electromotive. Like Walter White, Gus is a criminal who "hides in plain sight", using his anti-drug philanthropy to conceal his true nature.
As shown in flashback in the Breaking Bad episode "Hermanos", Gus and his business/romantic partner Maximino Arciniega had approached the cartel with the offer to produce and sell meth for the cartel, but Don Eladio had Hector Salamanca kill Max as punishment for going behind Eladio's back, then forced Gus to participate in distributing cartel cocaine. Emigrating to the United States, Gus appeared acquiescent but secretly plotted to exact revenge and eliminate his dependence on the cartel by producing his own meth via a "super lab" hidden beneath an industrial laundry.
During the events of Better Call Saul, Gus allies with Mike when Mike finds his own family at risk from the Salamancas, and turns Nacho into a mole within the Salamanca organization after discovering that Nacho caused Hector to have a stroke by secretly replacing Hector's heart medication with fakes. Wanting to be the agent of Hector's death, Gus pays for Hector's recovery but only to the point where he has recovered his mental faculties and can move his right index finger. Gus seizes more of the drug trade from the Salamancas, but when the cartel sends Lalo to replace Hector, Gus is forced to make sacrifices to protect the developing meth lab and Nacho's status as his mole. Gus arranges an assassination attempt on Lalo, but Lalo secretly survives and begins hunting for evidence of Gus's culpability. Gus realizes Lalo is alive and takes extreme security measures to protect himself. He ultimately kills Lalo in a shootout at the lab's construction site, and has him (and Howard Hamlin) buried beneath the lab's foundation.
By the events of Breaking Bad, Gus produces and distributes meth instead of cocaine, but still seeks independence from the cartel. He has completed the super lab and plans for Gale to be his cook, but when he discovers the superior quality of Walter's blue meth, he hires Walter and reluctantly allows Jesse to serve as Walter's assistant. This leads to a series of confrontations and fallouts that culminate with Jesse killing Gale at Walter's instigation, saving Walter's life by making him irreplaceable to Gus. The relationship between Jesse and Walter falters as a result of Jesse's guilt, enabling Gus to draw Jesse in as an ally. Gus offers Jesse's services to the cartel as part of a ruse to kill Eladio and eliminate the cartel. Knowing his life is still at risk because Jesse has proved to be nearly as capable as Walter in the lab, Walter goads Jesse into providing information Walter uses to set a trap for Gus. During a visit with Hector at his nursing home, Gus plans to finally end Hector's life, but realizes too late that he has been tricked. Hector rings the bell attached to his wheelchair repeatedly to trigger the bomb Walter planted, which kills Hector, Tyrus and Gus.

Mike Ehrmantraut[edit]
Main article: Mike Ehrmantraut
Jonathan Banks
Michael Ehrmantraut (played by Jonathan Banks) is a former Philadelphia police officer who works for Gus—and, on occasion, Saul—as a private investigator, head of security, cleaner, and hit man. In the Better Call Saul episode "Gloves Off", it is implied that Mike is a Marine Corps veteran of the Vietnam War. While in Philadelphia, he married and had a son, Matt, who later had his own family, wife Stacey and daughter Kaylee. Mike got caught up in crooked activities within the Philadelphia police, and after Matt joined the force, he hesitated when two crooked cops approached him, so they killed him. After Matt's funeral, Mike murdered the two cops, then fled to Albuquerque to be near Stacey and Kaylee. He took a job as a parking lot attendant at the local courthouse and also performed for-hire criminal jobs on the side.
In Better Call Saul, Mike becomes Jimmy's associate after Jimmy helps cover for him when Philadelphia officers investigating the deaths of the two cops Mike killed learn of Mike's whereabouts. Through one of his side-jobs, Mike also becomes involved with Nacho. Nacho asks Mike to help eliminate an increasingly-unstable Tuco from the Salamanca organization, but Mike instead engineers Tuco's long-term arrest by faking a confrontation in front of police. Hector suspects Mike, so Mike attempts to bring police attention to the Salamanca drug trade. When this effort fails, Mike plans to assassinate Hector but is stopped by Gus, who wants to be the one to decide when Hector dies, and offers Mike a position within his organization. Mike oversees the construction of the "super lab" led by Werner Ziegler. When Werner escapes and inadvertently reveals some details about the lab to Lalo Salamanca, Gus orders Werner killed to protect the secret, and Mike shoots Werner. Mike is depressed afterwards, until Gus offers him a larger role in helping gain revenge against the Salamancas. Knowing that Nacho is operating as Gus's mole in the Salamanca organization, Mike works to keep Lalo off Gus's trail and saves Jimmy from a cartel assassination attempt.
Mike remains as Gus's trusted associate by the time of Breaking Bad, helping to keep Walter and Jesse in line after Jesse kills Gale, and coming up with a plan to drive a rift between Walter and Jesse. Eventually, Gus trusts Jesse enough to bring him and Mike to Mexico as part of Gus's plan to kill Don Eladio and other cartel members. Mike is critically wounded and forced to stay in Mexico to heal. During this time, Walter convinces Jesse to help Walter get revenge on Gus, and Jesse's information enables Walter to lure Gus into a fatal trap. Mike hears of Gus's death and races back to Albuquerque to furiously confront Walter and Jesse. Mike reminds them that to maintain secrecy, Gus had been discreetly paying off several members of Gus's organization. Walter starts a new meth production system with Jesse and Mike as full partners, and Mike uses part of his share to continue to pay off the members of Gus's old organization. After Todd kills a child during a methylamine heist, Mike and Jesse sell their share of the methylamine, but Mike promises to use part of his profit to continue paying off Gus's old crew. The DEA connects Mike to Heisenberg, and before Mike can flee, Walter tries to obtain the names of Gus's old organization from Mike so Walter can have them killed. Mike refuses and chides Walter, leading Walter to shoot him, but before Mike dies Walter says he realized too late that he could have gotten the names from Lydia.

Lydia Rodarte-Quayle[edit]
Laura Fraser
Fictional character
Lydia Rodarte-QuayleBreaking Bad / Better Call Saul characterFirst appearance
"Madrigal" (2012)
Last appearance
"JMM" (2020)
Created byVince GilliganPortrayed byLaura FraserIn-universe informationOccupation
Executive at Madrigal Electromotive GmbH
Drug smuggler
ChildrenKiira Rodarte-Quayle (daughter)
Lydia Rodarte-Quayle (played by Laura Fraser) is an executive of Madrigal Electromotive GmbH, working out of the company's office in Houston, Texas. Lydia, portrayed as a very nervous and somewhat troubled character, is a partner in Gus's drug activities, and Gus often works directly through her to secretly secure Madrigal's resources for his needs.
During Better Call Saul, she helps Gus arrange for Mike to become a Madrigal security consultant as a cover to launder the money Mike stole from the Salamancas. When Mike takes his job seriously, Lydia complains to Gus, but Gus assures her Mike can be trusted. When Lalo later arrives and interferes in Gus's operations, Gus reports to Lydia and Peter Schuler, the head of Madrigal's food division, about Lalo stalling the construction of his superlab, but assures them he has a plan to deal with Lalo.
Within Breaking Bad, Lydia continues to discreetly provide chemicals to Gus for Walt's meth production in Gus's superlab. After Gus's death and the destruction of the lab, Walt establishes a new meth production line with Jesse and Mike, with Lydia providing the chemicals. The DEA links Gus to Madrigal, and nervous that she will be exposed, Lydia asks Mike to kill 11 co-conspirators who were part of Gus's organization. Mike refuses, so Lydia pays one of the co-conspirators to eliminate Mike along with the other 10 on the list, but Mike kills the hitman first, discovers Lydia's role, and blackmails her to continue to provide the methylamine for Walt's operation. The DEA continue to investigate Madrigal, and Lydia discovers they are tracking her methylamine shipments to Walt. She provides Walt with information on a railroad tanker car shipment of methylamine, which would provide Walt with enough material to make millions of dollars worth of meth for sale to Lydia's contacts in the Czech Republic.
Walt, Mike, and Jesse enlist Todd to help steal the methylamine. During the theft, they are observed by a young boy, whom Todd kills. Mike and Jesse then decide to sell their portion of the methylamine to Walt and leave the business, with Mike using a portion of his profits to continue paying the members of Gus's organization for their silence. When the DEA connects Mike to Gus, Walt tries to get Mike to provide the names of the individuals he is paying, but Mike refuses. Walt shoots Mike, then realizes he could have asked Lydia for the names. Mike dies, and Lydia later provides the names to Walt. Walt then pays Jack to eliminate the individuals Mike was paying.
Walt eventually sells the remaining methylamine to Declan and leaves the drug business. Todd initially works as Declan's meth cook, but when Declan fires Todd, the replacement is not as good, and Lydia's Czech customers are dissatisfied. Declan refuses to rehire Todd, so Lydia arranges to have Jack kill Declan and his gang and take over the business. After Hank discovers Walt is Heisenberg and uses Jesse to lure Walt to the site of his buried money, Jack's gang arrives, kills Hank and Gomez, takes most of Walt's money, and kidnaps Jesse so they can force him to be their meth cook. Walt is forced into hiding, but a year later returns to Albuquerque to get his revenge before he dies from cancer. He meets Lydia and Todd at a coffee shop and offers them a new method for methylamine-free meth production. Todd declines, but Lydia feigns interest so that Walt will meet with Jack, then tells Todd to make sure Jack kills Walt at the meeting. Walt uses the meeting to kill Jack and his gang with a machine gun hidden in his car, and Jesse kills Todd. An ill Lydia calls Todd's cell phone to ask if Walt is dead. Walt answers and reveals that she will soon be dead because he slipped ricin into her stevia at the coffee shop. In El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, Jesse hears a radio news report indicating that a woman from Houston, presumably Lydia, is critically ill after having been poisoned. The report indicates that her suspected ties to Walt are being investigated, and that she is not expected to survive.

Todd Alquist[edit]
Jesse Plemons
Fictional character
Todd AlquistBreaking Bad characterFirst appearance"Hazard Pay" (2012)Last appearanceSnow Globe (2020)Created byPeter Gould  Vince GilliganPortrayed byJesse PlemonsIn-universe informationOccupation
Pest exterminator for Vamonos Pest
Meth manufacturer
FamilyJack Welker (uncle)
Todd Alquist[4] (played by Jesse Plemons) is an exterminator for Vamonos Pest, a fumigation company used by Walt, Mike, and Jesse as the front for their meth business after Gus Fring's death. Todd and the other Vamonos employees are also burglars, gathering information from the houses they tent and selling it to outside parties. Todd notices and disables a nanny cam at Walt and Jesse's first post-Gus Fring cook site, attracting their attention as someone they think might be useful in the future. He aids in the heist of methylamine from a freight train, and gives a friendly wave to a boy who stumbles on the crime scene, but then shoots him without warning. The team reluctantly keeps Todd employed after the murder, accepting his explanation that he assumed there could be no witnesses to the crime and they all risked arrest. Todd's explanation, plus his claims that his uncle (Jack Welker) runs a gang with connections that could be valuable to the meth operation, convince Walt and Mike to keep him alive, although Jesse is reluctant.
After Jesse and Mike quit, Todd becomes Walt's assistant in the cooking process. Todd respectfully refers to Walter as "Mr. White", and after studying under Walt, he spends his breaks going over his notes, but refuses to accept payment until he satisfies Walt's standards. After Walt kills Mike, Todd helps dispose of Mike's car and body, and Walt uses Jack's prison connections to eliminate Gus's nine living former employees and their lawyer to keep them from exposing Walt.
After the gang captures Jesse, Todd convinces his uncle to force Jesse to cook for them instead of killing him. Jesse creates a batch with a level of purity comparable to Walt's. Thinking he deserves a reward for a job well done, Todd brings him ice cream and praises him for his skill. Todd's bad side is again on display when he shoots and kills Jesse's ex-girlfriend Andrea to punish Jesse for an escape attempt, but apologizes before he shoots her. Months later, Walter kills Jack's gang by remotely firing an M60 machine gun installed in the trunk of a car. Todd survives, but Jesse strangles him with the chains of his handcuffs, choking him hard enough to snap his neck.
Todd's unpredictable switches between charming politeness and respectful gestures to sudden acts of extreme violence led his character to be called the most dangerous villain on Breaking Bad, and IGN named him 2013's best TV villain.[5][6]
In El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, Todd appears in flashbacks that take place after Jesse's failed escape attempt and Andrea's death. Todd, Kenny, and Neil Kandy torment Jesse as Neil builds his new restraints. Todd later enlists Jesse's help to add a canopy to his El Camino and bury the body of Todd's cleaning lady, whom he murdered after she accidentally found his hidden money. After Jesse's escape from the compound, he returns to Todd's apartment and retrieves the cash to use in his escape from Albuquerque, but is forced to contend with two criminals, Neil Kandy and Casey, who want the money for themselves.

Introduced in Better Call Saul[edit]
Kim Wexler[edit]
Main article: Kim Wexler
Rhea Seehorn
Kimberly Wexler (portrayed by Rhea Seehorn) is Jimmy's friend, romantic partner and by the fifth season, his wife. In her youth, she and her mother moved frequently around Nebraska, and she often had to take care of herself due to her mother's drunkenness, leading her to become self-reliant. While attending law school, Kim was an intern at Hamlin, Hamlin & McGill, where she met Jimmy, who was working in the mail room. Her success at completing law school and becoming an associate at HHM partially inspired Jimmy to become a lawyer.
Jimmy's intuition about activity at a local nursing home, Sandpiper Crossing, results in a prolonged lawsuit. Kim attempts to defend Jimmy's unethical legal manipulations to Howard and Chuck, which threatens her career. Even when she is able to secure the large regional bank Mesa Verde as a client for HHM, Howard downplays her contributions. Kim and Jimmy start co-located law offices and Kim brings Mesa Verde with her. Chuck succeeds at persuading Mesa Verde to return to HHM. Jimmy forges paperwork in a Mesa Verde filing, which makes Chuck appear incompetent and causes Mesa Verde to return to Kim. Kim is pleased to have the account but Jimmy's machinations lead to a confrontation with Chuck that results in Jimmy's law license being suspended, Chuck being compelled to retire from HHM, and Chuck committing suicide.
Kim becomes bored with banking law and begins taking on pro bono criminal defense cases. She subsequently proposes to Rich Schweikart, the managing partner of the firm defending the Sandpiper chain, that she bring Mesa Verde with her and become a partner in charge of a new banking division. Finding herself drawn in by Jimmy's schemes, Kim later decides to quit Schweikart & Cokely and representing Mesa Verde while continuing to handle pro bono criminal defense cases. Howard suggests that Kim is throwing her career away at Jimmy's instigation; Kim is insulted and scoffs at Howard's belief that she cannot think for herself.
After Jimmy regains his law license and begins practicing as Saul Goodman, he becomes increasingly involved with the Salamanca drug cartel. Kim proposes that they marry so they can invoke spousal privilege, enabling Jimmy to speak freely about his clients. Lalo Salamanca is arrested under an assumed name and accused of murder. When Jimmy goes missing after driving to a remote desert location to pick up bail money, Kim unsuccessfully attempts to learn his location by revealing to Lalo that she is Jimmy's wife. While Jimmy is stuck in the desert with Mike Ehrmantraut, he admits that Kim knows about his involvement with the Salamancas, which causes Mike to warn Jimmy that Kim's life is as much at risk as theirs.
After posting Lalo's bail, Jimmy conceals Mike's involvement by lying to Lalo. Lalo locates Jimmy's abandoned car near the site of the pickup and finds it riddled with bullets, a detail that contradicts Jimmy's story. Lalo confronts Jimmy and Kim, but Kim berates Lalo for not trusting Jimmy. Lalo appears satisfied with Kim's explanation and departs. Kim and Jimmy check into a hotel so that Lalo will not find them if he returns. Still angry at Howard, Kim suggests to Jimmy that they resolve the Sandpiper lawsuit by intentionally sabotaging him, which will result in Jimmy receiving more than $1 million as his share of the settlement or judgment. Jimmy is unnerved by the callousness of Kim's plan but agrees to participate.
The scheme against Howard succeeds after he embarrasses himself at a Sandpiper settlement conference, forcing HHM and Davis & Main to accept a lower amount than they sought. Howard pieces together the con and confronts Kim and Jimmy at their apartment that night, but Lalo arrives and kills Howard. Lalo has Kim drive to Gus's house to shoot him, but she is apprehended by Mike, to whom she explains the situation. When she tells Gus that Jimmy convinced Lalo to send her instead of him, Gus deduces that the assassination attempt was a ruse. Kim is reunited with Jimmy at their apartment the following morning; Mike has Howard's death staged as a suicide and instructs them never to speak of the events of that night. Kim is overwhelmed with guilt, surrenders her law license, and leaves Jimmy soon after Howard's memorial service.
Kim relocates to Florida, takes a job at Palm Coast Sprinklers, and lives a simple, mundane life. One day, she receives a call from Jimmy; she tells him to turn himself in, but he reacts angrily and mockingly tells her to do the same. Kim takes his words to heart and flies to Albuquerque, where she submits an affidavit to the district attorney's office detailing Jimmy's and her role in character-assassinating Howard. She also gives a copy to Howard's widow Cheryl, giving Cheryl grounds to file a wrongful death civil suit. Kim returns to Albuquerque after Jimmy's arrest, but Jimmy admits during his trial that he implicated her in his crimes only so she would be present to hear his confession. He admits the extent of his role in Walter White's criminal empire, his part in wrecking Howard's reputation, and his sabotaging of Chuck's career. He receives a sentence of 86 years; Kim visits him in prison to bid him farewell.

Howard Hamlin[edit]
Main article: Howard Hamlin
Patrick Fabian
Howard Hamlin (portrayed by Patrick Fabian) is a name partner of the successful Albuquerque law firm Hamlin, Hamlin & McGill. At first glance Howard appears to be one of life's winners. His privileged background, unflappability, sun-kissed good looks that appear unchanged over time, and ample charm prove to be a constant source of frustration for Jimmy, as is his positive relationship with HHM's other name partner, Chuck McGill.
After Chuck steps away from the firm due to his claim of electromagnetic hypersensitivity, Howard becomes the managing partner and enables Chuck to work from home while Jimmy takes care of Chuck's personal needs. Unbeknownst to Jimmy, Chuck uses Howard to block Jimmy from advancing in the legal profession. Jimmy believes Howard is the one inhibiting his career progression, causing him to become resentful of Howard. When Kim Wexler quits HHM, Mesa Verde Bank agrees to hire her as outside counsel, but Chuck and Howard succeed at bringing Mesa Verde back to HHM. Jimmy then alters paperwork in one of Chuck's Mesa Verde filings, causing him to appear incompetent, so Mesa Verde returns to Kim. Chuck secretly records Jimmy's admission to tampering with the Mesa Verde documents, then makes Jimmy aware of the recording. When Jimmy breaks in to Chuck's home to destroy it, Howard is present and serves as Chuck's corroborating witness, enabling him to have Jimmy charged with breaking and entering. Instead of a criminal prosecution, Chuck presents the confession to the state bar association in hopes of having Jimmy disbarred, but Jimmy and Kim minimize Chuck's argument by exposing his alleged electromagnetic hypersensitivity as psychosomatic. Jimmy's law license is suspended but he is not disbarred. Howard counsels Chuck to consider Jimmy's suspension a win, but Chuck remains unsatisfied.
After Jimmy's suspension, he "accidentally" informs HHM's malpractice insurer of Chuck's condition, causing the insurer to demand that Chuck be constantly supervised by another attorney or that HHM pay a substantial premium increase. Chuck wants to fight the insurance company, but Howard pays Chuck the first of three installments to buy out his share of the firm and forces Chuck into retirement. Chuck subsequently kills himself and Jimmy initially believes himself responsible. When Howard admits that he believes himself responsible because he forced Chuck to retire, Jimmy allows Howard to shoulder the blame. For much of the next year, Howard is emotionally withdrawn and the notoriety around Chuck's death causes HHM to lose clients and go into dire financial straits. By the time Jimmy regains his law license, Howard announces that HHM has recovered and is once again one of Albuquerque's top firms.
Howard later offers Jimmy a position at HHM and says the feud was between Chuck and Jimmy, not Jimmy and the firm. Jimmy is upset by the reminder of his past and toys with Howard while claiming to consider his offer. Howard eventually realizes that Jimmy is conducting a harassment campaign against him and rescinds the offer, while Jimmy says that as Saul Goodman, he is too big for the constraints of an HHM job. When Kim tells Howard she quit Schweikart and Cokely and gave up the Mesa Verde account so that she could focus on pro bono criminal defense cases, Howard says she is throwing her career away at Jimmy's instigation. Kim scoffs at the idea that she cannot think for herself and says Howard does not really know Jimmy. Howard angrily tells her that Chuck – who recognized that Jimmy could not stop himself from hurting everyone close to him – was the one who knew Jimmy better than anyone else. Kim later proposes to Jimmy that they obtain Jimmy's share of the multi-million dollar settlement or judgment from the Sandpiper Crossing lawsuit sooner by ruining Howard's reputation.
As Kim and Jimmy plan and execute their con, Howard becomes aware of their machinations and tells his wife Cheryl, with whom he has a strained relationship, that he is attempting to solve the problem. Jimmy and Kim's plan succeeds, Howard is humiliated in front of his clients and peers, and HHM and Davis & Main accept a settlement from Sandpiper that is lower than what they wanted. Howard pieces together the whole plot and arrives at Kim's apartment to confront her and Jimmy. Lalo Salamanca arrives soon afterwards, intending to interrogate Jimmy and Kim about their ties to Mike Ehrmantraut and Gus Fring. Howard disregards Jimmy and Kim's entreaties to leave immediately, and Lalo kills Howard with a gunshot to the head. Howard's death is staged to look like a suicide, while he is buried alongside Lalo underneath the floor of Gus Fring's underground meth lab.

Nacho Varga[edit]
Main article: Nacho Varga
Michael Mando
Ignacio Varga (portrayed by Michael Mando) is a calculating, intelligent career criminal. He is the right-hand man to Tuco Salamanca, heir to Hector Salamanca's organization. While not yet a kingpin himself, Nacho is bright and has the ear of his terrifying boss. Nacho meets Jimmy during the Kettleman embezzlement case and unsuccessfully attempts to persuade Jimmy to help him steal the cash from the Kettlemans. Nacho also comes to respect Mike after seeing his professionalism during one of Mike's criminal side-jobs. As Tuco becomes increasingly unstable, Nacho asks Mike to kill Tuco. Mike opts instead to manipulate Tuco into assaulting him in view of the police, which results in Tuco being sent to prison for several years. Nacho is promoted to become Hector's right-hand man, but becomes concerned when Hector wants to use his father Manuel's upholstery store as part of the Salamanca drug ring. Nacho is forced to reveal that he works for Hector, which causes a rift between Manuel and Nacho. Nacho attempts to kill Hector by inducing a heart attack through replacing Hector's angina medication with a placebo. During a heated meeting, Hector has a stroke, which results in his permanent reliance on a wheelchair. Gus discovers Nacho's involvement and threatens to reveal it to the Salamancas unless Nacho acts as his mole within the Salamanca organization.
Following Hector's heart attack, the Salamancas bring Lalo to Albuquerque to manage their operations. As instructed by Gus, Nacho becomes Lalo's confidante and reports back to Gus and Mike. Nacho also introduces Lalo to Jimmy when one of their dealers, Krazy-8, is caught with drugs. Jimmy secures Krazy-8's release by having him give the DEA the locations of Gus's drug money dead drops and making him a confidential informant. Nacho informs Gus about Lalo's plan but Gus allows the DEA to seize the drops in order to protect Nacho's identity as his mole. Using information provided by Nacho, Gus has Mike arrange for Lalo's arrest under an assumed name, but even in prison, Lalo poses a danger to Gus's organization. The cartel provides Lalo's bail money, and Lalo has Nacho drive him to Mexico. Lalo then introduces Nacho to Don Eladio and explains a plan to place Nacho in charge of the Salamanca operation in Albuquerque while Lalo remains in Mexico to hide from police and prosecutors. Gus intends to have Lalo killed, and Nacho receives a call instructing him to open the back gate to Lalo's villa at 3 am. Nacho opens the gate and flees. Armed men enter and attempt to kill Lalo. Lalo kills most of the attackers, realizes that Nacho is missing, and angrily strides away from his house.
After opening the gate, Nacho flees and follows Gus's instructions to hide at a motel. After realizing that Gus has betrayed him to the cartel, Nacho agrees that in exchange for a guarantee of safety for Manuel he will surrender to Gus and implicate someone else to the cartel for the attack on Lalo. In a meeting between Gus, Juan, and Hector, Nacho falsely claims he was working for a rival drug family when he let the gunmen into Lalo's compound and also reveals that he caused Hector's stroke. Rather than attempt to flee so Victor can kill him quickly to save him from being tortured by the Salamancas, Nacho uses a piece of broken glass to cut his restraints, then seizes Juan's gun and kills himself.
Nacho and Lalo are mentioned in the Breaking Bad episode "Better Call Saul". Walter White and Jesse Pinkman kidnap Saul and attempt to coerce him into defending Badger after Badger is arrested for selling meth. Saul believes that the masked Walter and Jesse are hitmen sent by Lalo and attempts to blame "Ignacio" for whatever wrong Lalo believes was done. This is revealed to be because, shortly before Lalo's death, he had revealed to Jimmy Nacho's role in the failed assassination attempt against him and Lalo implied that he believed that Jimmy was involved as well. Lalo had promised to return for the full story later, but he died before he could and Jimmy had lived in fear of Lalo returning to keep his promise.

Chuck McGill[edit]
Main article: Chuck McGill
Michael McKean
Charles Lindbergh McGill Jr. (portrayed by Michael McKean) is Jimmy McGill's older brother. He is a named partner at one of Albuquerque's most prestigious law firms, Hamlin, Hamlin & McGill (HHM), which he co-founded with Howard Hamlin's father. A brilliant man who holds himself and others to high ideals, Chuck firmly believes that doing the right thing is the only true path to success. Chuck is critical of Jimmy's background as a scam artist, and after Jimmy was arrested in Chicago Chuck secured his release on the condition that Jimmy get a legitimate job in HHM's mail room. To Chuck's surprise, Jimmy was inspired to pursue his own law degree, hoping to also become an attorney at HHM. Because Chuck does not consider Jimmy a "real" lawyer, he worked behind Jimmy's back to prevent him from being hired.
Chuck was married to Rebecca Bois, which ended in divorce; around this time, Chuck began to believe he had electromagnetic hypersensitivity, which forced him to semi-retire from HHM. Prior to and in the early part of Better Call Saul, Jimmy tends to Chuck's daily care. When Jimmy discovers potential fraud at the Sandpiper retirement community, Chuck identifies relevant evidence and helps Jimmy prepare the initial case files. Because of the case's size, Chuck suggests that they give it to HHM, but Jimmy is stunned to learn they want the case but not his participation, a demand secretly made by Chuck. When Kim is later denied recognition for securing the Mesa Verde account for HHM, Jimmy secretly introduces an error in Chuck's paperwork, leading to Kim establishing a practice with Mesa Verde as her only client. This leads to a feud, with Chuck deceiving Jimmy into admitting guilt, then using the recorded confession in an effort to have Jimmy disbarred. Jimmy is suspended for a year after he uses the bar association hearing to prove Chuck's illness is psychosomatic, but is not disbarred.
Jimmy cuts ties with Chuck and requests that Howard take over Chuck's care. Chuck attempts to overcome his illness but Jimmy "accidentally" informs his malpractice insurer of Chuck's condition. The insurer threatens higher rates for HHM unless Chuck is constantly supervised. Chuck wants to fight but Howard buys out Chuck's share, effectively firing him. Chuck relapses and in the season 3 finale "Lantern", he kills himself by intentionally knocking over a lantern which causes a fatal fire.  The fallout of Chuck's tragic death lingers on to affect Jimmy, Kim and Howard as the series progresses.

Lalo Salamanca[edit]
Main article: Lalo Salamanca
Tony Dalton
Eduardo "Lalo" Salamanca (portrayed by Tony Dalton) is another of Hector's nephews, introduced in season 4 of Better Call Saul. He arrives from Mexico soon after Hector's stroke to help run the family's drug operation, and takes a greater interest in the day-to-day details than Hector did, which makes Nacho uneasy. Lalo visits Hector in the nursing home and enables Hector to communicate more effectively by giving him a front desk call bell, which Lalo kept as a souvenir after Hector killed a hotelier. Lalo thanks Gus for giving Hector first aid after his stroke and paying for his care, but also surveils Gus's subordinates in order to learn their regular activities. When Werner escapes from Mike's supervision, Lalo follows Mike and kills Fred, a money wire store clerk, to obtain Werner's location. He becomes aware that Werner was constructing something for Gus and Gus fabricates a story to explain events of which Lalo is aware, which Lalo outwardly accepts while remaining suspicious.
Lalo disrupts Gus's activities and places trust in Nacho, unaware Nacho is Gus's mole. Lalo allows Krazy-8 to become a DEA informant with Jimmy's help, and Krazy-8 turns over locations of Gus's dead drops. Gus has Mike link Lalo to Fred's murder to get him arrested, but later has Jimmy arrange for his bail of $7 million. Lalo convinces Jimmy to pick up the cash from Leonel and Marco at a remote desert location. Jimmy is nearly killed by the cartel, who believe it best to keep Lalo in prison to protect Gus's business, but Mike arrives to save him. After Jimmy's car breaks down, Mike and Jimmy trek through the desert over two days before reaching safety. Jimmy provides Lalo a cover story to hide Mike's involvement, which Lalo accepts. He intends to skip bail and return to Mexico, but instead of waiting for Leonel and Marco to pick him up, he searches for Jimmy's car. He returns to Albuquerque to confront Jimmy at Kim's apartment, and reveals that he found Jimmy's car, which was full of bullet holes. Kim says passersby probably shot at the car for fun and accuses Lalo of not trusting Jimmy. Lalo then instructs Nacho to drive him to Mexico, but not the original pickup site. In Mexico, he introduces Nacho to Don Eladio and informs him that Nacho will run the Salamanca drug business while Lalo hides from the authorities.
Gus arranges an assassination attempt on Lalo with Nacho's help, but Lalo survives. He fakes his death, then travels to Germany under an alias to find proof that Gus is disloyal to the cartel. After conversing with Werner Ziegler's widow Margarethe and later breaking into her house, he finds clues that lead him to Casper, a member of Werner's construction crew. Using details obtained from Casper, Lalo returns to Albuquerque and surveils Gus's industrial laundry. He later arrives at Jimmy and Kim's apartment. Howard Hamlin had arrived shortly before Lalo; confused, Howard fails to heed Jimmy and Kim's entreaties to leave immediately, and Lalo kills him with a gunshot to the head.
Lalo instructs Jimmy to drive to Gus's house and shoot him; Jimmy convinces Lalo to send Kim instead, expecting Lalo to kill whoever remains behind. Lalo binds and gags Jimmy, then takes Jimmy's car to the laundry. Mike thwarts Kim's attempt to kill Gus, and sends his men to her apartment after she tells him Lalo is there with Jimmy. This allows Lalo to sneak into the laundry. Gus goes to the laundry after realizing that Kim was sent as a distraction; Lalo kills Gus's bodyguards and forces Gus to show him the lab's construction site, filming the encounter as proof of Gus's disloyalty to the cartel. Gus, however, triggers a power outage and kills Lalo with a gun he had hidden in the site earlier. Lalo is buried beneath the lab's floor alongside Howard.
Lalo and Nacho are mentioned in the Breaking Bad episode "Better Call Saul". Walter White and Jesse Pinkman kidnap Saul and attempt to coerce him into defending Badger after Badger is arrested for selling meth. Saul believes that the masked Walter and Jesse are hitmen sent by Lalo and attempts to blame "Ignacio" for whatever wrong Lalo believes was done. In the episode "Breaking Bad" of Better Call Saul, shortly after Saul's freakout, Jesse asks who Lalo is, given how scared Saul was of him. Jesse notes that he's never heard Lalo's name before amongst the street-level dealers and Saul brushes Lalo off as being "nobody."

Supporting characters[edit]
Cast table[edit]


Character

Portrayed by

Breaking Bad

Better Call Saul

El Camino:A Breaking Bad Movie


1

2

3

4

5a

5b

1

2

3

4

5

6


Recurring characters


Steven Gomez

Steven Michael Quezada

Recurring



R




Skinny Pete

Charles Baker

Recurring

Guest

R



S


Carmen Molina

Carmen Serano

Recurring



G




Tuco Salamanca

Raymond Cruz

Recurring



R

G




Dr. Delcavoli

David House

Recurring




Gretchen Schwartz

Jessica Hecht

R

G



R




Gonzo

Jesus Payan Jr.

R

G



G




No-Doze

Cesar Garcia

R

G



G




Domingo "Krazy-8" Molina

Max Arciniega

R



G

R

G

R




Emilio Koyama

John Koyama

R



G




Holly White

Various



Recurring




Ted Beneke

Christopher Cousins



Recurring

G




George Merkert

Michael Shamus Wiles



Recurring

G




Hector Salamanca

Mark Margolis



Recurring



Recurring




Brandon "Badger" Mayhew

Matt L. Jones

G

Recurring

Guest

R



S


Diane Pinkman

Tess Harper

G

R

G



S


Jane Margolis

Krysten Ritter



R

G



C


Combo Ortega

Rodney Rush

G

R

G




Donald Margolis

John de Lancie



R

G




Clovis

Tom Kiesche



R

G




Austin Ramey

Todd Terry



R



R

G



G

S


Spooge

David Ury



R



G




Andrea Cantillo

Emily Rios



Recurring

G

R




Brock Cantillo

Ian Posada



Recurring

Guest




Gale Boetticher

David Costabile



Recurring



R




Victor

Jeremiah Bitsui



G

R

G



Recurring




Juan Bolsa

Javier Grajeda



R

G



Recurring




Group Leader

Jere Burns



R

G




Kaylee Ehrmantraut

Various



R



R



Recurring




Leonel Salamanca

Daniel Moncada



R



R



R

G

R




Marco Salamanca

Luis Moncada



R



R



R

G

R




Tomás Cantillo

Angelo Martinez



G

R




Pamela

Julie Dretzin



R




Huell Babineaux

Lavell Crawford



R

G

R



G

Recurring

G




Patrick Kuby

Bill Burr



R

G

R




Chris Mara

Christopher King



R

G




Francesca Liddy

Tina Parker



Guest

R



R



R

G



R




Tyrus Kitt

Ray Campbell



R



Recurring




Eladio Vuente

Steven Bauer



R



G



Guest




Nick

Eric Steinig



R



R

G

R




Tim Roberts

Nigel Gibbs



G



R



R

G




Bogdan Wolynetz

Marius Stan

G



G

R




Gaff

Maurice Compte



R




Declan

Louis Ferreira



R

G




Dennis Markowski

Mike Batayeh



G

R




Ron Forenall

Russ Dillen



R




Dan Wachsberger

Chris Freihofer



R




Kenny

Kevin Rankin



G

R



S


Elliott Schwartz

Adam Godley

G



R




Kalanchoe

Gonzalo Menendez



G



R




Munn

Jason Douglas



G



R




Jack Welker

Michael Bowen



G

R




Frankie

Patrick Sane



G

R




Lester

Tait Fletcher



R




Matt

Matt Metzler



R




Stacey Ehrmantraut

Kerry Condon



Recurring

G




Ernesto

Brandon K. Hampton



Recurring

G




Brenda

Sarah Minnich



Recurring

Guest




Rich Schweikart

Dennis Boutsikaris



Recurring



Recurring




Mrs. Nguyen

Eileen Fogarty



Recurring



R



G




Dr. Caldera

Joe DeRosa



R

G

R

G



G




Bill Oakley

Peter Diseth



R

Guest

Recurring




Irene Landry

Jean Effron



R



R



G




Marco Pasternak

Mel Rodriguez



R



G




Betsy Kettleman

Julie Ann Emery



R



G




Craig Kettleman

Jeremy Shamos



R



G




Sanders

Barry Shabaka Henley



R




Abbasi

Omid Abtahi



R




Joey Dixon

Josh Fadem



G

Recurring




Phil

Julian Bonfiglio



G

Recurring




Paige Novick

Cara Pifko



Recurring




Kevin Wachtell

Rex Linn



Recurring

G




Arturo Colon

Vincent Fuentes



Recurring




Erin Brill

Jessie Ennis



R

G



R




Daniel "Pryce" Wormald

Mark Proksch



G

R

G




Mrs. Strauss

Carol Herman



G

R

G




Ximenez Lecerda

Manuel Uriza



R

G




Fran

Debrianna Mansini



G



R



R




Cliff Main

Ed Begley Jr.



R



Guest

R




Brian Archuleta

Luis Bordonada



R



G




Lawson

Jim Beaver



Guest



R




Omar

Omar Maskati



R




Manuel Varga

Juan Carlos Cantu



G

Recurring




Cheri

Hayley Holmes



G

Recurring




Rebecca Bois

Ann Cusack



G

Recurring




David Brightbill

Jackamoe Buzzell



R




Viola Goto

Keiko Agena



Recurring

G




Suzanne Ericsen

Julie Pearl



G



R

G

R

S


Casper

Stefan Kapičić



R

Guest




Ira

Franc Ross



G



R




Werner Ziegler

Rainer Bock



R




Maureen Bruckner

Poorna Jagannathan



R




Everett Acker

Barry Corbin



R




Lyle

Harrison Thomas



Guest

R




Cheryl Hamlin

Sandrine Holt



R




Jeff

Don Harvey



Guest




Pat Healy



R




Buddy

Max Bickelhaup



G

R




Marion

Carol Burnett



R




Rand Casimiro

John Posey



R




Adam Pinkman

Michael Bofshever

Guest



S


Old Joe

Larry Hankin



G



G



S


Ed Galbraith

Robert Forster



G



G



S


Clarence

David Mattey



G



Guest



S


Neil Kandy

Scott MacArthur



S


Casey

Scott Shepherd



S


Lou Schanzer

Tom Bower



S


Guest characters


Wendy

Julia Minesci

Guest



G




Ken

Kyle Bornheimer

G



G




Cynthia

Ashley Kajiki



Guest




Tortuga

Danny Trejo



Guest




Duane Chow

James Ning



G



G




Officer Saxton

Stoney Westmoreland



G



G




Barry Goodman

JB Blanc



Guest



Guest




Stephanie Doswell

Jennifer Hasty



G



G




Peter Schuler

Norbert Weisser



G



G




Laura Cruz

Clea DuVall



Guest




Sobchak

Steven Ogg



G



G




Captain Bauer

Brendan Fehr



Guest




Mr. Ughetta

Michael Chieffo



Guest




Margarethe Ziegler

Andrea Sooch



G



Law enforcement[edit]
Getz[edit]
Getz (portrayed by DJ Qualls) is an Albuquerque police detective who takes part in an undercover operation that results in him arresting Badger Mayhew for possession of meth.[7]

Steven Gomez[edit]
Steven Gomez (played by Steven Michael Quezada) is Hank's Drug Enforcement Administration partner and friend. He is promoted to El Paso when Hank declines the transfer after witnessing a deadly attack on the Mexican border. Gomez has been Hank's right-hand man in the "Heisenberg" case since the beginning. After the Salamanca Brothers nearly kill Hank, Gomez starts performing tasks that Hank cannot perform due to his handicap. At the end of Season 4 (on Hank's request), Gomez inspects Gus's industrial laundry with police dog units, but finds no trace of the underground meth lab.[8]
After Walt and Jesse set fire to the lab,[9] Gomez returns with Hank to find it destroyed, with little evidence remaining.[10] Gomez is the only DEA officer whom Hank tells about his revelation that Walter White is Heisenberg, and Gomez continues to be Hank's partner through their final investigation, which leads to both the arrest of Walt and a shootout with Jack's gang. Gomez is killed in the gunfight, shortly before Hank is killed.[11][12][13]
Gomez was originally supposed to die in the first season. However, when the 2007–2008 writers' strike cut the season short, the writers reworked their ideas and he remained alive until the last season.[14]
Quezada reprises his role as Gomez in Better Call Saul, appearing in the fifth season episode "The Guy for This" in which he and Hank interview Domingo "Krazy-8" Molina after Molina is arrested following the discovery of a drug house belonging to the Salamanca family. Jimmy McGill, representing Molina as Saul Goodman, convinces Hank and Gomez to allow Molina to go free in exchange for Molina becoming a confidential informant. Information provided by Molina leads to the discovery of "just shy of a million dollars" in drug money.

Kalanchoe and Munn[edit]
Kalanchoe (played by Gonzalo Menendez) and Munn (played by Jason Douglas) are detectives with the Albuquerque Police Department, questioning Jesse first in regard to the poisoning of Brock Cantillo,[9] and then in regard to the large amount of money he has been giving away.[15]

George Merkert[edit]
Assistant special agent in charge George Merkert (played by Michael Shamus Wiles) is Hank's boss at the DEA. He is impressed with Hank's tenacity and hard work, and recommends him for a transfer to El Paso. When Hank returns to Albuquerque after being wounded, Merkert is frustrated by Hank's stalling a second transfer to El Paso, unaware that Hank is having panic attacks and is afraid to go back. After Hank attacks Jesse, Merkert is forced to suspend Hank without pay but tells him off the record that Jesse will not press charges.[16] Following Hank's shooting and subsequent recovery, Merkert welcomes Hank back to work but refuses to act on Hank's suspicions of Gus Fring beyond a basic interview. When Gus is revealed to be a drug kingpin, Merkert is permanently relieved of his duties in the DEA due mainly to his and Gus's extensive personal interactions and the subsequent doubt cast on Merkert's integrity following Gus's downfall.[17]

Austin Ramey[edit]
Special Agent-in-Charge Austin Ramey (played by Todd Terry) is the head of the southwestern United States DEA offices, and thus the highest ranking DEA agent appearing on the show. He appointed Hank to replace George Merkert as ASAC.[18] He reappears in El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie in which he gives a press conference watched by Skinny Pete and Badger on the massacre of Jack Welker's gang by Walter White and the status of Jesse Pinkman. Ramey also reappears in the series finale of Better Call Saul, during Jimmy McGill's sentencing hearing. He is one of five characters (along with Mike Ehrmantraut, Walter White, Jesse Pinkman, and Ed Galbraith) to appear in each of Breaking Bad, Better Call Saul, and El Camino.

Tim Roberts[edit]
Tim Roberts (played by Nigel Gibbs) is a detective with the Albuquerque Police Department (APD), who works closely with Hank Schrader and the DEA under George Merkert's watch.
Roberts first appears at the White household asking Skyler about Walt's disappearance after Tuco Salamanca kidnaps both Walter and Jesse and takes them to his uncle's house. Hank asked Roberts to take the case of Walter's disappearance as a personal favor to Hank, believing Walter had one of his "episodes" wherein he forgot where he was and would turn up days later.[19]
Roberts next appears after Marie Schrader is arrested and taken to the police station for pilfering property at the open houses she visits. Hank contacts Roberts after Marie tells Hank about her predicament. Roberts gets the homeowners to drop their charges after their property is returned, and he takes Marie home for Hank.[20]
Roberts also investigates Gale Boetticher's murder. He consults with Hank after he finds Gale's notebook and asks what all the notes and drawings mean, and whether or not Gale may have been working in a meth lab. This piques Hank's interest in the case, and he embarks on his own investigation of Gale and his ties to Fring.[21]
The APD detectives' investigation of Gale's apartment yields Gus's fingerprint, which gives the APD and the DEA probable cause to officially request that Fring come in for questioning. Fring complies and then explains his ties to Boetticher, who won one of Gus's Maximino Arciniega scholarships that Gale used to pursue degrees in chemistry. Roberts is satisfied with Gus's explanations of how he knew Boetticher and why he was in Boetticher's home, but Hank remains dubious and continues investigating Fring and his personal and business dealings.[22]
Roberts reappears in seasons 5 and 6 of Better Call Saul where he is the lead detective investigating the murder of Fred Whalen by Lalo Salamanca. Mike Ehrmantraut, in an effort to get rid of Lalo, arranges for Roberts to get the evidence that he needs to connect Lalo to the murder and arrest him for it with Lalo using the alias of Jorge DeGuzman. However, due to Lalo's continuing threat, Gus Fring has Mike help Saul Goodman get Lalo bail, much to the frustration of Roberts and the deputy district attorney in charge of the case. Roberts and the DDA later confront Saul over "Jorge's" fake family and subsequent disappearance, but Saul brushes off their questions. However, he accidentally slips up and refers to Lalo by his real first name, later allowing the authorities to identify Jorge DeGuzman as actually being Lalo Salamanca who has supposedly been recently killed in a shootout at his home.

Gus's organization[edit]
Max Arciniega[edit]
Maximino Arciniega (played by James Martinez) is Gus Fring's business associate and implied romantic partner.[23] Gus paid for Max's education in biochemistry and chemical engineering, at the University of Santiago in Chile. The pair then moved to Mexico and opened a chain of Los Pollos Hermanos chicken restaurants together. In the drug business, Max is the chemist; he cooked the crystal meth, samples of which he and Gus started giving away. These samples gained the attention of Don Eladio, a local drug lord, whom Max and Gus approached in the hope of convincing the Don to join them in the meth business. Don Eladio, unimpressed by these upstarts and nominally dismissive of selling methamphetamine in lieu of cocaine, had Hector kill Max on the patio of his mansion. Gus is forced by Juan Bolsa to watch as his partner's fatal head wound bleeds into the swimming pool, a vision that stays with him. After moving to the US, Gus sets up a college scholarship in Max's name (which Gale Boetticher won one year) and is determined to avenge his lover's death.[22]
The character Maximino Arciniega shares his name with the real-life actor who plays Krazy-8 in Season 1.

Gale Boetticher[edit]
Gale Boetticher (played by David Costabile) is a chemist hired by Gus Fring to set up the underground meth lab and serve as Walt's assistant. He holds an MS degree in organic chemistry, with a specialty in X-ray crystallography. Gale pursued a doctorate in Colorado under an NSF grant but quit because he loved being in the lab and wanted to preserve the "magic" he saw in chemistry. He describes himself as a "nerd" and a libertarian. He is single, vegan and well-cultured. He is a fan of foreign language music, speaks fluent Italian, and is fond of Walt Whitman.
During the events of Better Call Saul, Gale is a post-graduate student and researcher at the University of New Mexico, and discreetly tests meth samples Gus provides as part of a plan to end his need for Mexican cartel cocaine. Gale asserts he could make better quality meth himself, but Gus says he has bigger plans for Gale. The construction of the underground meth lab, which Werner Ziegler oversees, is revealed to have been done in accordance with Gale's design.
In a flashback within Breaking Bad, Gale selects and installs the meth lab's production equipment. He analyzes the "blue meth" samples Gus provides and assures Gus it is the best meth he has ever seen.[24] By the third season of Breaking Bad, Gale has broken in the lab's equipment but has been waiting for Gus to hire Walt to cook blue meth. When Walt arrives, Gale expresses admiration and eagerness to learn.[25] Walt later needs to bring Jesse back into the business to make amends for Hank's assault, so he convinces Gus to fire Gale and re-hire Jesse.[26]
Jesse discovers Gus's street dealers were responsible for the deaths of Combo and of Andrea's brother, Tomás. Before Jesse can kill the dealers, Walt runs them over with his car, then has Saul hide Jesse. Gus re-hires Gale and instructs him to learn everything he can from Walt, supposedly because Walt has terminal cancer and Gus cannot end meth production if Walt dies. Walt recognizes that Gus is planning to kill him, so he instructs Jesse to learn Gale's address. Late one night, Mike and Victor take Walt to the lab on the pretense of solving an urgent problem. Walt convinces them to let him call Jesse and ask him to the lab, but he uses the call to instruct Jesse to kill Gale. Victor tries to beat Jesse to Gale's apartment but Jesse arrives first and shoots Gale directly under his eye with a Beretta 92FS 9mm pistol, killing him instantly, which prevents Gus from killing Walt.[27]
Gale's death triggers several key events.[24] Because police responding to Gale's apartment see Victor, who could be connected to Gus, Gus kills Victor in a way that serves as a warning to Walt and Jesse to cook meth without causing trouble. Hank connects Gale's death to Gus, the blue meth, and Heisenberg, and obsessively reviews Gale's lab notes, especially a dedication to "W. W.".[28] While having dinner at Walt's house, Hank finds the copy of Whitman's Leaves of Grass Gale gave Walt, which includes the dedication "To my other favorite W. W." in the same handwriting as Gale's journal. This leads Hank to finally realize that Walt is Heisenberg.

Duane Chow[edit]
Duane Chow (played by James Ning) is the owner of Golden Moth Chemical, an industrial chemical manufacturing company that supplies Gus's drug empire. During Gus's conflict with a Mexican drug cartel in Ciudad Juárez, the cartel enforcers come to Chow's offices and hold him hostage. Chow's captors are later killed by Mike, who shoots Chow in the hand for not telling Gus about the situation.[27] After Gus's death, Chow starts being questioned by the DEA, as he was on Gus's payroll at the time of Gus's murder. Chow is also on the list of eleven men whom Lydia suggests that Mike kill before they can make a plea deal with the DEA (but Mike refuses). Lydia then hires one of the eleven, Chris Mara, to kill the other ten, and adds Mike to the list. Mara starts with Chow, whom he uses to lure Mike into a trap before shooting Chow in the head. Mike thwarts the attempt on his own life after getting from Chris the information Lydia gave him, and then kills Chris.[17]

Ron Forenall[edit]
Ron Forenall (played by Russ Dillen) is Mike Ehrmantraut's contact at Madrigal Electromotive's chemical warehouse in Houston. He is in constant contact with Lydia Rodarte-Quayle, who tells him which containers she has taken off the manifests, which he sends to Golden Moth Chemical Company in Albuquerque, which in turn forwards them on to Lavanderia Brilliante and Gus's lab.
Forenall is arrested after Hank and Gomez arrive at Madrigal's warehouse in Houston and Lydia identifies him in the warehouse.[18] Forenall later appears as one of the nine incarcerated members of Gus's organization who Lydia lists to be killed. Forenall is last seen in a hallway when he is stabbed to death by the Neo-Nazis.[29]

Barry Goodman[edit]
Dr. Barry Goodman (played by JB Blanc) is Gus's personal doctor, treating him and Mike after the showdown at Don Eladio's residence.[30] He later informs Mike about Gus's death.[10]
He reappears in Better Call Saul as the doctor in a medical clinic for low-income Spanish-speaking patients. Per Gus's instructions, he provides Mike with cocaine to prepare a trap for Hector's smugglers when they cross the border.

Tyrus Kitt[edit]
Tyrus Kitt (played by Ray Campbell) is one of Gus's henchmen. After Victor is killed, Gus promotes him to serve as Mike's second-in-command, monitoring Walt and Jesse's activities both inside and outside the lab. A cold, calculating, and pragmatic criminal tactician, Gus seems to much prefer him to his predecessor Victor, who was more impulsive, reckless, and cocky than Tyrus.
He spots Hector Salamanca leaving the DEA office, incorrectly assuming that Hector has become an informant, which was Walter White and Hector's plan to lure out Gus and Tyrus. Little do they know, Hector has a pipe bomb attached to the bottom of his wheelchair activated by his bell he uses to communicate, intending to assassinate both Gustavo and Tyrus in a suicide bombing. Hector kills Tyrus instantly in the same explosion that kills Gus.[9] Tyrus also appears as one of Gus's key subordinates in Better Call Saul.
Tyrus Kitt is heavily implied to be extensively military trained in Better Call Saul. Whether he served in the armed forces of the United States or any other country, or was a former member of a mercenary group, is never confirmed or elaborated on, however.

Chris Mara[edit]
Chris Mara (played by Christopher King) is one of Gus's henchmen and Mike Ehrmantraut's errand runners, who runs errands among Fring, the mules, and the dealers. One of his other side jobs is to assist Tyrus Kitt in monitoring who is coming and going through the doors of both the Albuquerque Police Department and the DEA's Albuquerque office.
Chris first appears in "Bug", where he is shown taking cover when Gaff opens fire on the operatives at the Los Pollos distribution center, killing one of them while Jesse stands paralyzed. He is later shown among the men looking for Walt when Walt goes into hiding.[30] Chris is watching from his car when Jesse exits the police station, after being questioned about Brock Cantillo's poisoning (wrongly assumed to be by ricin rather than by the poisonous chemical in the berry of the lily of the valley plant),[8] and is seen when Hector Salamanca leaves the DEA office after questioning. He also is the one to drive Gus to the retirement home.[9]
Chris later takes Duane Chow hostage in Chow's own home, forcing Chow to call Mike to come over so Chris can kill Mike. However, Mike sees Chris's car parked in Chow's driveway and senses that this is a trap. Mike outsmarts Chris with a toy on Chow's front door while he sneaks into Chow's house from the back. Chris confesses that since the DEA seized his hazard pay, he took up Lydia's offer that Mike refused: $10,000 for each of the 10 other men on the list, and triple for Mike. Mike then dispatches Chris in the same way that Chris killed Chow.[17]

Dennis Markowski[edit]
Dennis Markowski (played by Michael Batayeh) is the manager of Lavanderia Brilliante, the industrial laundromat which served as the cover for Gus's superlab. Following Gus's death and the discovery of the lab, the DEA arrested Dennis and several other members of Gus's organization. Dennis agrees to stay silent when Mike assures him he will continue to be paid.[31] When Dennis's cash is confiscated, he seeks a plea deal with the DEA, but Hank refuses, believing he can obtain better information from others in Gus's organization. Walt arranges for Dennis and Gus's other employees to be killed in order to protect Walt's identity, and several inmates kill Dennis by pouring flammable liquid into his cell and igniting it.[29]

Peter Schuler[edit]
Peter Schuler (played by Norbert Weisser) is the head of the fast food division of Madrigal Electromotive GmbH and a close associate of Gus and Lydia. He met Gus in Santiago, Chile, where they escaped a dangerous situation which marked the beginning of their friendship. He was hired by Mr. Herzog in 1992 at Madrigal. As head of the company's fast food division, Schuler invested in Gus' restaurant chain Los Pollos Hermanos and assisted him in the business of his drug empire.
In Better Call Saul, Schuler leads a meeting with the CEOs of Madrigal's restaurant chains, where he reports Los Pollos Hermanos' quarterly earnings. He later meets with Gus and Lydia in his room and panics about the delay in the construction of the superlab, fearing he will be caught funding for Gus' drug operation. Gus calms him down and reassures him the problems will be dealt with.
Following Gus' death in Breaking Bad, Schuler's association with him is exposed. When the police arrive to question him, Schuler commits suicide by electrocuting himself with an automated external defibrillator.

Victor[edit]
Victor (played by Jeremiah Bitsui) is Gus's loyal henchman. He appears throughout Better Call Saul from season three onward with Gus's introduction to the story, acting as Gus's bodyguard and enforcer along with Tyrus, a role he maintains with Gus's introduction in Breaking Bad. Victor acts as Gus's front in initial deals with Walter and Jesse.[32] After Walter kills two of Gus's dealers to protect Jesse, Victor takes a near-permanent position monitoring Walter's activities while in the superlab with Gale. Gus discovers Walter's role in the dealers' deaths, and orders Victor and Mike to bring Walter to the lab. Walter makes a frantic call telling Jesse to kill Gale, believing this will motivate Gus to keep them alive. Victor races to stop Jesse but arrives at Gale's apartment too late.[27] Victor finds Jesse and brings him back to the lab, where he and Mike hold Jesse and Walter while waiting for Gus. Walter tries to convince Gus that he needs Walt and Jesse to cook his meth, while Victor attempts to demonstrate that he has value to Gus by showing that he has learned how to cook by observing Walt. Gus unexpectedly slices open Victor's throat with a box cutter in front of Walter, Jesse, and Mike, then orders them to "get back to work". They are forced to dispose of Victor's body using hydrofluoric acid.[24] Though Mike commented that Gus may have killed Victor because he was seen at Gale's apartment and can be connected to Gus, Walt later mentions to Jesse that he believes Gus did it because Victor took inappropriate liberties (such as hastily cooking meth improperly while Mike held Walt and Jesse hostage, in an attempt to one-up them and expedite their deaths) and "[flew] too close to the sun", as Walt put it.[31]

Dan Wachsberger[edit]
Dan Wachsberger (played by Chris Freihofer) is an attorney hired by Mike Ehrmantraut to represent Ron Forenall, Dennis Markowski, and the other seven surviving members of Gus Fring's operation running out of the Lavanderia Brilliante in Albuquerque. Wachsberger takes the money (Mike Ehrmantraut's "legacy costs") from Mike and then deposits it to ten safety deposit boxes at the Cradock Marine Bank in Albuquerque: nine for Gus's surviving men and their families to use in lieu of their "hazard pay" and one larger box for Mike's granddaughter Kaylee on her 18th birthday.
Wachsberger first appears as he and Mike are going through the New Mexico Department of Corrections facility at Los Lunas south of Albuquerque. Dan signs in and tells the attending guard, Darla, that he has brought in his "paralegal" and they have come to see Dennis Markowski.[31] Dan is consistently shown flirting with women, such as Darla and, at the bank, with Dorothy Yobs, whom he routinely lavishes with gifts of sugary baked goods. Dorothy gives Dan access to the safety deposit boxes at Cradock Marine Bank. Eventually, Hank and Gomez discover Mike and Dan's transactions and their safety deposit boxes at Cradock Marine Bank, and Gomez is sent to investigate. Gomez and his agents discover Dan making his routine drops in these boxes, arrest him, and successfully induce Dan to inform on Mike.[33]
The last time Wachsberger appears, he is in the federal prison at La Tuna near Las Cruces, when he is stabbed to death at the same time the nine surviving members of Gus's operation are also killed, which Walt ordered in order to conceal his connection to Gus.[29]

Mexican drug cartel[edit]
Eladio Vuente[edit]
Don Eladio Vuente (played by Steven Bauer) is the head of a drug cartel in Ciudad Juárez which includes Juan Bolsa, Hector Salamanca, and Salamanca's nephews. He first met Gus Fring twenty years prior to the start of the series, when Gus and his partner Max proposed producing methamphetamine for the cartel. Unimpressed by their pitch, Eladio declined because the cartel preferred to continue distributing cocaine. After the meeting, Eladio had Hector execute Max as retaliation for manipulating him into a meeting, but spared Gus's life due to an unrevealed but powerful connection to Chile.[22] He then forced Gus to work with the cartel under Eladio's terms, and Gus became the cartel's chief distributor in the American Southwest.
Following the deaths of Juan Bolsa and the Cousins, and Gus's subsequent establishment of the meth superlab, Eladio orders retribution, and his henchman Gaff hijacks meth deliveries and kills some of Gus's operatives. Gus agrees to Eladio's demands—the formula for the blue meth, the services of a chemist, and a 50 percent share of the business—and travels to the cartel's superlab with Mike and Jesse. After Jesse successfully cooks a batch, Eladio invites them to a party at his villa attended by multiple capos, who toast their new business venture with a bottle of Zafiro Añejo premium tequila supplied by Gus. Eladio chides Gus as someone who provides value to the organization, but periodically needs to be reminded of his place. The capos begin to collapse shortly after the toast, victims of the poison Gus put in the tequila. Gus had previously built up a tolerance to the poison, and intentionally vomited soon after the toast. Eladio realizes that Gus has betrayed him and attempts to lunge at him, but collapses dead into the swimming pool.[34]
Eladio first appears in Better Call Saul through a Season 3 flashback ("Sabrosito") in which he teases Hector because his cash tribute and gifts are inferior to Gus's. In season 5 ("Something Unforgivable"), Eladio meets with Lalo and Nacho and gives his blessing to the Salamancas' plan for Nacho to manage their organization while Lalo hides from police and prosecutors in Mexico. Following Lalo's death in Season 6 ("Fun and Games"), Hector reveals that Lalo survived Gus's first attempt to kill him and accuses Gus of having recently killed him. With no evidence that Lalo survived the first attempt, Eladio dismisses Hector's accusations and sends him to bed. To maintain the peace, Eladio splits up the Albuquerque drug territory between Gus and Hector. He recognizes that Gus hates him which he says is fine as long as Gus remembers "who's boss".

Juan Bolsa[edit]
Juan Bolsa (played by Javier Grajeda) is a high-level member of the Mexican drug cartel to which the Salamanca family and Gus belong. Within Better Call Saul he generally acts as the voice of the cartel to mediate issues between the Salamancas and Gustavo Fring because he wants to make sure both earn profits for the cartel. Bolsa sometimes secretly works with one side or the other for his own benefit. When Mike secretly disrupts the Salamancas' trucking route for smuggling drugs from Mexico, Bolsa orders that Salamanca drugs will be transported by Gus's trucks, a result Gus worked with Mike to produce because it gave Gus more power over the Salamancas. Bolsa intercedes when Gus provides a false story about Werner Ziegler's activities and death, telling Lalo Salamanca that Gus enjoys Don Eladio's trust, so Lalo should consider the matter closed. Similarly, when Lalo is seeking to arrange for Jimmy McGill to pick up his bail money, Bolsa discreetly arranges for a squad of gunmen to attack Jimmy, believing that keeping Lalo in prison is in Gus's best interests but unaware that Gus had his own plans. Bolsa later oversees the cartel's manhunt for Nacho Varga after Nacho aids in an assassination attempt on Lalo. Nacho surrenders to the cartel and falsely claims to be a mole for a rival gang (rather than Gus) in order to protect his father. He then rebukes the Salamancas, reveals himself responsible for Hector's stroke, then kills himself with Bolsa's gun. Later, Bolsa takes part in a meeting with the Salamancas and Don Eladio where Hector accuses Gus of setting up the attempt on Lalo's life and later killing him. However, Don Eladio does not believe it and Bolsa is visibly relieved by the conclusion of the matter.
Within Breaking Bad, it is Bolsa who orders Tortuga's execution by The Cousins and later places his head on a booby-trapped tortoise for the DEA to find. He is also the cartel's liaison with Gus, and the one who arranges a meeting among Gus, the Cousins, and Hector to determine how to handle Walter following Tuco's death. Bolsa tells Gus he will urge the Salamanca family to be patient but advises that Gus risks losing favor with the cartel if he does not finish his business with Walter quickly. He goes on to say that he cannot guarantee the Cousins will listen to reason and leave Walter alive until his business with Gus is done.[35] He has forbidden the Cousins to kill Hank in retaliation for Hank's killing of Tuco because killing law enforcement officers will bring on more police scrutiny. Gus secretly sanctions an attack on Hank instead of Walter, resulting in severe injuries to Hank and the deaths of The Cousins. Bolsa meets his end when Gus secretly tips off Mexican federales in Ciudad Juárez, who kill Bolsa as retaliation for The Cousins' attack on Hank.[26]
Bolsa's name, translated literally from Spanish, is John Bag or John Sack; this is a nod to the character John "Johnny Sack" Sacrimoni from the HBO drama The Sopranos. Both characters are high-ranking members of powerful crime families who are very level-headed, well-spoken, and act as intermediaries between their families and others.[36]

Hector Salamanca[edit]
Hector Salamanca (played by Mark Margolis) is the elderly don of the Salamanca drug organization and an associate of cartel boss Don Eladio. He is the uncle of twins Leonel and Marco Salamanca (the Cousins),  Tuco Salamanca, and Lalo Salamanca, and raised Tuco as a son. He taught his nephews that family is everything and lives by the creed himself. Though brutal, Hector is very loyal. He spent 17 years in San Quentin State Prison but never revealed any information to the authorities.
In an extended flashback in the Breaking Bad episode "Hermanos", Hector is shown to be responsible for the death of Max Arciniega, Gus Fring's partner, whom Don Eladio ordered killed after he was insulted by Gus and Max's offer to produce meth for the cartel, which preferred to keep distributing cocaine.[22] As a result, Gus developed a lifelong loathing of Hector. Hector resents and degrades Gus, calling him "chicken man" (hombre gallina in Spanish, literally "hen man") and a "dirty" South American. Despite their mutual hatred, Hector and Gus are forced to cooperate since each is based in Albuquerque, though each frequently schemes to displace the other.
Hector is the boss of the Salamanca family at the start of Better Call Saul. After Mike Ehrmantraut and Nacho Varga arrange for Tuco's imprisonment by provoking him into attacking Mike, Hector offers Mike $5,000 to reduce Tuco's sentence by claiming the gun Tuco was carrying was Mike's. Hector makes repeated attempts to intimidate Mike into accepting, and Mike eventually accepts $50,000. Mike is concerned about Hector's threats to Stacey and Kaylee and retaliates by attacking a truck transporting Hector's drug cash. Hector kills a witness who stopped to aid the driver, Ximenez, and later has Leonel and Marco bury the witness in the desert. While Hector and the Cousins are preparing to kill Ximenez, Mike attempts to shoot Hector with a sniper rifle, but is stopped by someone unseen, who sets off his car horn and leaves a note warning him not to do it. Mike later learns it was Gus who tracked his location and warned him against killing Hector; Gus intends to be the agent of Hector's demise, and believes the time is not yet right.
In season 3, Mike's and Gus's machinations force Hector to find a new way to ship his product from Mexico and he decides to use the upholstery store owned by Nacho's father Manuel. In response, Nacho attempts to induce a heart attack by switching out Hector's heart medication in capsules for crushed ibuprofen. Hector has a stroke while meeting with Gus and Juan Bolsa, but Gus saves him with CPR. Hector is comatose and Gus arranges for a specialist from Johns Hopkins to oversee his care. Over the next few months, her therapy restores Hector's mental faculties, but he is unable to speak and is immobile except for his right index finger. Gus has the specialist discontinue treatment, effectively trapping Hector's sound mind in his unhealed body. Hector is reliant on a wheelchair for the rest of his life.
In seasons 4 and 5, Lalo Salamanca comes to Albuquerque to oversee the Salamanca drug interests. He visits Hector, now residing at the Casa Tranquila nursing home, and gives him the front desk call bell Lalo saved as a souvenir after Hector killed a hotelier and burned down the building. Hector is able to communicate by ringing the bell, which is tied to his wheelchair. He confirms to Lalo that Gus is protected by the cartel and enjoys the trust of Don Eladio, and Lalo realizes he will have to tread carefully if he opposes Gus.
In Season 6, Lalo phones Hector after surviving an assassination attempt planned by Gus. Lalo implicates Gus and tells Hector to continue acting as if Lalo is dead so Lalo can obtain proof of Gus's disloyalty to the cartel. Gus and Juan swear vengeance on the man who took Lalo's life, and Hector pretends to be grateful, but his demeanor convinces Gus that Lalo is still alive. Nacho agrees to absolve Gus of blame for the attack on Lalo. After claiming he killed Lalo while working for a rival drug family, Nacho admits to Hector that he caused Hector's stroke, but that Gus saved him. Nacho then commits suicide and an enraged Hector responds by firing bullets into Nacho's corpse. After surmising that Hector's phone calls are monitored by Gus, Lalo calls to say he will attack Gus and his men at Gus's laundry that night. This ruse causes Mike to shift his security teams away from targets considered less important to Lalo, which enables Lalo to approach Jimmy and Kim unobserved. Following Lalo's actual death, Hector dictates a letter through the Cousins to Don Eladio revealing Lalo's survival and correctly accusing Gus of having killed him during Lalo's attempt to gather evidence against him. However, after hearing the evidence pointing to Lalo's death in the failed attempt on his life, Don Eladio dismisses Hector's accusations and sends a furious Hector to bed.
By the time of Breaking Bad, Tuco is out of prison and has brought Hector to live with him. In the season 2 premiere, Tuco kidnaps Walt and Jesse and brings them to the decrepit shack where Hector is also located. Walt attempts to poison Tuco's food with a baggie of meth contaminated with ricin, but Hector saves him by knocking the food onto the floor. After killing Tuco in a shootout, Hank Schrader takes Hector in for questioning. Hector refuses to cooperate and defecates in his pants, much to the disgust of everyone in the interrogation room. Afterwards, he is sent back to Casa Tranquila.
In season 3, the Cousins sneak into the U.S. to avenge Tuco by killing Walt. Mike and Gus intervene and the Cousins bring Hector to a meeting with Gus. Gus convinces them to postpone the murder by telling them Walt is invaluable to the cartel's methamphetamine operations, but that they are free to kill him once he has served his purpose.
In season 4, Gus makes periodic visits to the nursing home to gloat about the deaths of Hector's family members and the expansion of Gus's drug territory, which comes at the Salamancas' expense. Gus repeatedly demands that Hector look at him so that Gus can gloat, but Hector refuses. In the season finale, Walt convinces Hector to lure Gus into a trap, reasoning that as much as Hector despises Walt, he hates Gus even more. Hector meets with Hank Schrader under the guise of becoming an informant, but insults Hank rather than giving him information, and is promptly ejected. Tyrus spots Hector leaving the DEA office and alerts Gus. Gus and Tyrus visit Hector in the nursing home, intending to kill him. Gus again orders Hector to look at him. When a sorrowful-looking Hector finally looks at Gus, Gus prepares to administer a lethal injection, but Hector's facial expression changes to wrath as he repeatedly rings his bell. Gus realizes the bell is rigged to detonate a bomb under Hector's wheelchair and tries to run, but is caught in the explosion. Hector and Tyrus are instantly killed, while Gus drops dead a few moments after leaving the room with half of his face blown off.[9]

Tuco Salamanca[edit]
Tuco Salamanca (played by Raymond Cruz) is a mentally unstable Mexican drug kingpin, and nephew to Hector. He is unpredictable and prone to violent outbursts which are often amplified by his drug use. In flashbacks during Breaking Bad, it is shown that when they were children, Hector often meted out harsh punishments to Tuco, Leonel, and Marco.
When first introduced in Better Call Saul, Tuco is second-in-command of the Salamanca drug family in Albuquerque under Hector. Tuco and his grandmother are inadvertently targeted for a con by Jimmy and two skateboarders. Tuco and Nacho take Jimmy and the skateboarders out to the desert to kill them but Jimmy pleads for their release. Tuco eventually gives in, breaking one leg of each of the skateboarders as a warning and letting them go, though Nacho recognizes Jimmy as a shrewd lawyer. Later, Nacho recognizes Tuco's behavior within the Salamanca organization has become more erratic. Having seen how Mike operates, Nacho asks Mike to kill Tuco, but Mike suggests an alternate plan: he creates a situation in which Tuco beats him while in view of the police, resulting in Tuco being charged with assault with a deadly weapon because he was carrying a gun. Hector convinces Mike to claim the gun was his so that Tuco will receive a shorter sentence. While in prison, Tuco stabs another inmate and injures a corrections officer, adding more time to his sentence. At the end of season five, approximately four years before the Breaking Bad events, Lalo tells Hector that Tuco has roughly a year left on his sentence.
At the start of events of Breaking Bad, Tuco is one of the first major drug dealers that Walt and Jesse approach to sell their product. After Walt and Jesse witness him brutally assault and murder one of his henchmen, they plan to poison him by coating their next delivery of meth with ricin. The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) raids Tuco's headquarters before they can execute their plan. Tuco then carjacks Jesse and kidnaps him and Walt, suspecting Gonzo reported the murder to the authorities.
Tuco forces Walt and Jesse into Jesse's trunk, and drives to the remote desert house of his uncle, Hector, who cannot walk or speak due to a previous stroke. He reveals that his cousins Leonel and Marco are coming to the house to take them all to Mexico, where Walt will cook his blue meth for the cartel. Thinking Hector is unaware of his surroundings, Walt sprinkles Tuco's food with ricin while Tuco is not looking, but Hector foils the plan. Tuco realizes what Walt intended and attacks Jesse while threatening to kill him with an M16 rifle. During the ensuing scuffle, Jesse shoots Tuco in the abdomen.
Hank arrives, having followed the LoJack signal of Jesse's car in the belief that Jesse is selling marijuana to Walt. Walt and Jesse hide nearby and see Tuco stagger to Jesse's car, recover his rifle, and fire at Hank. Hank returns fire with a Glock pistol and kills Tuco.[19] Hank's DEA colleagues present him a paperweight embedded with Tuco's grill as a trophy, which he initially prizes but later throws into a river in disgust.[37]

Leonel and Marco Salamanca[edit]
Leonel and Marco Salamanca (played by Daniel and Luis Moncada), referred to as "The Cousins" or "The Twins", are twin brothers and prolific hitmen for Don Eladio's drug cartel. As children, the Cousins were raised by their uncle Hector Salamanca along with their cousin Tuco. Hector once tested them when he stopped a boyhood fight by nearly drowning Marco, which forced Leonel to hit Hector to make him release his grip. After Marco caught his breath, Hector reinforced the lesson that "family is all."[16] By the time of events in Better Call Saul and Breaking Bad, they have become deadly enforcers. Their austere, mechanical physicality and virtually non-verbal interaction makes them a fearsome presence and they kill without hesitation or emotion.
In Better Call Saul, the Cousins serve as Hector's enforcers. They are first shown threatening Mike's granddaughter Kaylee when Mike refuses to recant his testimony against Tuco. When Mike is waiting to shoot Hector from a hilltop with a sniper rifle, he sees the twins shoot and kill the Salamancas' ice cream truck driver and drug smuggler Ximenez Lecerda, whom Mike had robbed a few days earlier. When Hector has a stroke as a result of taking placebo medication that Nacho had planted instead of his nitroglycerin pills for his heart condition, the Cousins quickly arrive to watch over Hector at the hospital and refuse to leave his side. Gus, who has a vested interest in deciding Hector's fate as revenge for Max, arranges for a skilled therapist fluent in Spanish to see to Hector's recovery and explain his health to the Cousins. Gus learns what Nacho did with the pills and forces him to become his mole by murdering Arturo in front of him. Gus's men then stage a drive-by shooting to explain Arturo's death, and critically wound Nacho to make the ruse more plausible. Nacho calls the Cousins for help, who come to destroy the evidence, take Nacho to Dr. Caldera for immediate help, and then attack the headquarters of the rival drug gang to recover the "stolen" drugs that Gus had planted there. As their activities have drawn police attention, the Cousins return to Mexico. This gives Gus the opportunity to dismiss the therapist and leave Hector in a state where he can only move his eyes and his right index finger. In addition, the Cousins' slaughter of the gang gives Gus the opportunity to take over the gang's territory for himself.
Lalo later has the Cousins bring his bail money to the border for Jimmy McGill to collect and deliver to him with the Cousins leaving an extra $100,000 as Jimmy's payment. After getting bailed out, Lalo initially plans to have the Cousins pick him up, but later changes his mind and has Nacho drive him to Mexico instead. Lalo survives an assassination attempt plotted by Gus (aided by Nacho) and fakes his own death, leaving the Cousins to discover a decoy body in his home which they believe to be Lalo. The Cousins lead a manhunt for Nacho, but he evades their capture.
In Breaking Bad, it is revealed (in the episode "I.F.T.") that the Cousins were responsible for the death of the DEA informant Tortuga in the episode "Negro y Azul". They had decapitated him by machete and attached his head to a tortoise as part of a bomb which inflicted casualties on several DEA agents.[35] In the third season, following the death of their cousin Tuco, the cartel sends the Cousins to New Mexico to find Tuco's killer. En route to being smuggled into the US, they hide with other undocumented immigrants in the back of a hay truck, and shoot and kill the entire group when one recognizes them by their silver skull boot tips.[38] After Hector tells them about Walter, the cousins quickly track him to his house and are waiting inside to kill him when Mike, who is staking out the house, informs Victor of their presence. Victor tells Gus, who contacts the cousins telling them to abort, so they leave without Walter knowing they have been there.[39] Although Gus gives them permission to kill Walter after Gus's partnership with him ends three months later, Gus is warned that the Cousins will probably ignore the arrangement. Mike later finds a chalk drawing of a scythe outside Walt's house, which he believes the Cousins have left to send the message that their murder of Walt is imminent.[35]
Gus redirects the Cousins by telling them that Hank shot and killed Tuco, and he tells them they have his permission to kill Hank even though the cartel refrains from killing law enforcement officers, because that would draw undue attention to their activities. Leonel and Marco move to kill Hank, however, someone anonymously warns Hank just before the confrontation. Aware of the threat, Hank sees Leonel advancing on him and backs his car up quickly, trapping Leonel between his car and another, which crushes Leonel's legs. Marco opens fire on Hank, who escapes out the passenger side door and crawls away. Marco strides after Hank, shooting and killing a passerby who surprises him, while another bystander escapes the same fate when Marco stops to reload. Hank then surprises Marco from behind and shoots him in the chest four times, but all four bullets are stopped by Marco's bulletproof vest. Marco shoots Hank twice in the chest and abdomen, but rather than finish him off with another shot, Marco returns to his car for an axe. Hank takes advantage of the pause to load Leonel's empty gun with a hollow-point round that Marco had dropped next to him. When Marco re-approaches Hank, Hank kills him with a shot to the head.[16][25]
To silence Leonel while he is in the hospital following his leg amputation, Gus distracts the police assigned to the security detail by bringing them food from Los Pollos Hermanos, giving Mike the opportunity to sneak into Leonel's room and administer a lethal injection. Leonel dies, and Mike quietly disposes of the syringe he used, unnoticed by the police officers nearby.

Arturo Colon[edit]
Arturo Colon (played by Vincent Fuentes) is one of Hector Salamanca's enforcers who usually works alongside Nacho Varga. Arturo is sent to intimidate Mike into recanting his testimony against Tuco, but is overpowered by Mike. Arturo later attempts to strong-arm Gus's men into providing the Salamancas an extra kilo of cocaine during a pick up, as he had seen Nacho do on a previous occasion. After Gus discovers Nacho's role in causing Hector's stroke, he forces Nacho to become his mole by murdering Arturo in front of him. Gus's men stage Arturo's death as an attack committed by a rival gang, and wound Nacho to make the ruse more convincing.

Gaff[edit]
Gaff (played by Maurice Compte) is a member of Don Eladio's drug cartel. He is first seen coordinating the hijacking of a Los Pollos Hermanos truck that is transporting drugs and killing the guards inside by filling it with engine exhaust fumes. Gaff serves as the cartel's representative in a sitdown with Gus, where he rejects Gus's offer of $50 million to cut all ties and informs Gus there will be no negotiation, only an ultimatum to deliver the formula for the blue methamphetamine. Later, Gaff shoots and kills one of Gus's men with a sniper rifle at the chicken farm but stops shooting when Gus presents himself as a target and agrees to negotiate with Eladio. Gaff is present when the cartel is poisoned; Mike garrotes him as he checks on the ill Eladio.[34]
His name is a reference to Edward James Olmos's character in the 1982 film Blade Runner.

Gonzo[edit]
Gonzo (played by Jesus Payan Jr.) is Tuco Salamanca's brother-in-law and one of his lieutenants. He dies while moving No Doze's body from under a stack of cars in a junkyard; the stack shifts and catches his arm under it, partially severing it and causing him to bleed to death. When Walter and Jesse learn he is dead, they incorrectly assume that Tuco is killing any witnesses to No Doze's murder, and fear for their own lives. Later, when Tuco finds Gonzo is not returning his calls, he falsely believes Gonzo is working as a police informant.[40]

No Doze[edit]
No Doze (played by Cesar Garcia) is one of the head lieutenants in Tuco's drug organization. Tuco beats him to death for telling Walter and Jesse "Just remember who you're working for", which Tuco takes as an insult to their intelligence and an encroachment on his authority.[41]

Tortuga[edit]
Tortuga (played by Danny Trejo) is an informant for the DEA in El Paso on the inner workings of the Mexican cartels. Cartel operatives cut off his head and place it atop a tortoise (tortuga is Spanish for "tortoise") with "HOLA DEA" ("Hello DEA") written across its shell. A hidden bomb in the head then explodes, killing the tortoise and a DEA agent, and severely injuring several of the DEA agents and Mexican policemen on the scene. Hank is physically unharmed as he was far enough from the explosion, but later develops post-traumatic stress disorder.[42] It is later revealed that Tortuga was beheaded with a machete by Tuco's cousins Leonel and Marco Salamanca under Juan Bolsa's direct order.[35]

Ximenez Lecerda[edit]
Ximenez Lecerda (played by Manuel Uriza) drives a truck that delivers supplies for Hector Salamanca's ice cream store, in which he smuggles cocaine from Mexico and carries cash back to the cartel.[43] When Mike decides to disrupt Hector's drug business, he surveils the ice cream shop and a mechanic's garage.[44] The sound of the truck's tires being cut at the garage provides Mike with an understanding of how the smuggling routine works.[44] On Ximenez's next trip to Mexico, Mike uses a homemade spike strip to flatten the truck's tires, then ties up and blindfolds Ximenez.[45] Mike then cuts open a tire and steals the $250,000 hidden inside.[45] Mike intended for a Good Samaritan to free Ximenez, but when a passerby stopped to help, Ximenez called Hector.[43] Hector then dispatched a crew to the location to kill the Good Samaritan and clean up the scene.[43] Nacho informs Mike that he has orders to bring Ximenez to Hector for interrogation about whether he participated in the robbery.[45] Mike intends to kill Hector and procures a black market sniper rifle.[45] Through the scope, Mike sees Leonel and Marco kill Ximenez.[45] Shortly afterwards, Mike is dissuaded from firing at Hector.[45]

Independent drug traders[edit]
Declan[edit]
Declan (played by Louis Ferreira) is a meth dealer who operates in Phoenix, Arizona. Mike Ehrmantraut attempts to sell Declan the methylamine stolen in the train robbery, but Walter White suggests that Declan buy out Mike Ehrmantraut and Jesse Pinkman, then take over distribution of Walter White's methamphetamine in return for 35% of revenue, revealing that he is Heisenberg, the mysterious meth cooker whose product is renowned for its exceptional purity.[33][46] After Walter White stops producing methamphetamine, Lydia Rodarte-Quayle's customers express dissatisfaction with the product, so Rodarte-Quayle tries to convince Declan to replace his meth cook with Todd Alquist. Declan refuses, so Rodarte-Quayle arranges for Jack Welker's gang to kill Declan's whole crew, take the remaining methylamine, and continue production with Todd Alquist as the cook.[15]

Emilio Koyama[edit]
Emilio Koyama (played by John Koyama) is Jesse's former partner in the meth business and Krazy 8's cousin. According to Jesse, they met when they were still in elementary school. In the "Pilot" episode, Emilio is arrested during a DEA raid on a house (at which Walter is present during a "ride along" with Hank) in which the DEA is looking for a meth supplier who goes by the street name "Captain Cook" (Jesse himself). As Jesse proposes Krazy-8 to manage the distribution of the superior quality methamphetamine he produced with his new partner, he realized that Emilio made bail. Suspicious that Jesse ratted him out to the police (although it is later revealed Krazy-8 was in fact a DEA informant), Emilio and Krazy-8 force Jesse to lead them to his new partner. Emilio recognizes Walter from the time of his arrest and suggests killing both Walter and Jesse. Walter convinces them to spare their lives if he teaches them his meth formula. While the three are in the RV, Walt deliberately causes a chemical explosion and flees, trapping Emilio and Krazy-8 inside the RV with deadly phosphine gas. Emilio dies and Jesse subsequently disposes of his body by dissolving it in hydrofluoric acid, albeit disastrously as it also dissolves Jesse's bathtub and the floor below.[47][48] In "Better Call Saul", Jesse mentions that Saul Goodman got Emilio out of serious legal trouble twice as proof of why he and Walt should hire Saul to help Badger.
In Better Call Saul's "Waterworks", Emilio visits Saul Goodman's office in 2004 for legal help just as Kim Wexler is leaving after she and Saul sign their divorce papers.

Krazy-8[edit]
Domingo Gallardo "Krazy-8" Molina (played by Max Arciniega)[49] is a meth distributor associated with his cousin Emilio and Jesse Pinkman and is the first antagonist of the opening three episodes of the series. Krazy-8 becomes suspicious of Jesse when Jesse attempts to sell him a new product after Emilio's arrest, and forces Jesse to take him to Jesse's new partner. Krazy-8 and Emilio suspect Walter is involved with law enforcement and appear intent on killing him until Walter offers to teach Krazy-8 his drug formula. While mixing chemicals, Walter creates a small explosion that produces phosphine gas, which appears to kill both Emilio and Krazy-8. Emilio dies, but Krazy-8 regains consciousness, prompting Jesse and Walt to imprison him in Jesse's basement for several days as they ponder what to do with him.[47][48] Walt begins to bond with Krazy-8, feeding him and sharing beers; Krazy-8 is the first person Walt tells about his cancer. Walt is nearly convinced to free him, but realizes that Krazy-8 plans to attack him with a concealed piece of a broken crockery, and strangles him to death. Later in the episode, it is implied that Walter disposed of Krazy-8's body with hydrofluoric acid in the same manner as Emilio's.[50] From that point on, throughout the series, Walt makes sandwiches without bread crusts, adopting Krazy-8's manner of eating sandwiches.[38] Following the discovery of his car in the desert, it is revealed by Hank Schrader and Steven Gomez that Krazy-8 is actually the informant who had led them to Emilio and Jesse's lab in the first place during the ride along that had triggered Walt's interest in the drug trade. The discovery of a sample of Walt's meth hidden in Krazy-8's car alerts them to the existence of new players in town. In season two, Hank states that Tuco Salamanca is suspected of murdering Krazy-8, but Gomez states that they could not prove it.
Krazy-8 also appears in Better Call Saul as part of the Salamanca drug ring. Initially one of the dealers, he takes on a lieutenant role under Nacho after Hector Salamanca has a stroke and becomes paralyzed, and continues in this position when Lalo Salamanca arrives from Mexico to oversee operations. Lalo is the one to nickname Domingo "Ocho Loco" (Spanish for "Crazy Eight") based on his misplaying of  a hand during a poker game.[51] Krazy-8 is arrested when one of the Salamanca drug houses is discovered by the local police, leading Nacho to seek Jimmy McGill's legal services to help free him. Jimmy, as Saul Goodman, creates a ploy that draws Hank to see Domingo, and through Saul's machinations, secures Domingo's release by assuring that he will be Hank's confidential informant. Lalo subsequently uses Krazy-8 to sabotage Gus Fring's rival drug operations until Mike gets Lalo arrested for murder.

Aryan Brotherhood[edit]
Jack Welker[edit]
Jack Welker (played by Michael Bowen) is Todd Alquist's uncle and the leader of a Neo-Nazi gang. Walter pays Jack to kill Mike's crew after they are arrested, because Walt fears they can identify him as a member of Gus's operation and may enter into plea bargains as government informants since the DEA has stopped the payments Gus had arranged for their families. Jack's gang kills nine of Mike's men and their lawyer Dan Wachsberger in three prisons, within two minutes, which prevents any of them from warning the others or law enforcement authorities from adding extra protection.[29] Jack also heads his gang's massacre of Declan's at Lydia's behest after Declan refuses Lydia's request to replace his shoddy meth cook with Todd.[15]
Jack and his crew are later hired by Walt to kill Jesse in exchange for teaching Todd to cook meth one more time. When Walt is lured to the money's location by Jesse, he calls Jack's crew for help, but calls it off when he sees Hank and Gomez are with Jesse. Nonetheless, Jack and his crew arrive and engage in a shootout with Hank and Gomez.[12] Following the shootout, in which Gomez is killed, Jack murders Hank and abducts Jesse (initially to kill him, then to force him to work as an enslaved meth cook). Jack then orders the gang to dig up Walt's barrels of money (containing approximately $80 million), but at Todd's behest he leaves Walt alive with one barrel (about $11 million).[13]
Several months later, Walt arrives at Jack's hideout and remotely activates an M60 machine gun hidden in his car's trunk; the massive bullet spray kills Jack's entire gang except for Jack and Todd. An enraged Jesse strangles Todd with the chain that connects his shackles. A mortally wounded Jack offers to trade the money he took from Walt for his life, but Walt coldly shoots him in mid-sentence, in the same manner that Jack shot Hank.

Kenny[edit]
Kenny (Kevin Rankin) is Jack's protégé and second-in-command, and the Brotherhood's tech expert.[52]
Kenny is one of the gang members killed in Walter White's M60 machine gun attack. He also appears in El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, in which he is seen in a flashback as he taunts Jesse during Neil Kandy's construction of the tether that restrains Jesse while he is forced to cook meth for the Brotherhood.

Jesse's friends and family[edit]
Andrea Cantillo[edit]
Andrea Cantillo (played by Emily Rios) is a love interest of Jesse Pinkman's. She is a recovering meth addict and single mother to a young son named Brock (played by Ian Posada). Jesse meets her at a drug addicts' support group meeting and initially tries to get her to relapse so she will become a customer of his, but he reverses course when he learns she has a young son to care for. He engages in a romantic relationship with her, but ends it when he discovers that the 11-year-old boy who killed his friend "Combo" is her younger brother Tomas Cantillo (played by Angelo Martinez). After the break-up, she confronts Jesse at his home about a large sum of money he had left for her at her home. He tells her the money is for her to move out of her bad neighborhood and to help raise her son. Saul continues to deliver money to her, in her new home, on Jesse's behalf. In Season 4, she and Jesse reunite. When Brock is poisoned, Jesse rushes to the hospital and stays there until the doctors notify him that Brock will survive. In Season 5, Walt manipulates Jesse into leaving her, by advising Jesse that he would have to be honest with her about all the crimes he has committed. While Jesse does send them off again, he continues providing for them financially. Later in the season, Andrea is again contacted by Walt in a failed attempt to lure Jesse out of DEA protection. Walter assigns Jack to watch over the house in case Jesse makes an appearance. Subsequently, Jack uses her as leverage against Jesse, who is kept prisoner by him and his team to cook meth for them. After Jesse attempts to escape from Jack's gang, Todd shoots and kills Andrea while Jesse is forced to watch.

Brock Cantillo[edit]
Brock Cantillo (played by Ian Posada) is Andrea's eight-year-old son. Andrea is a recovering meth addict and single mother. Jesse meets her at a drug addicts' twelve-step program meeting and initially tries to get her to relapse, so she will become his customer, but he reverses course when he meets Brock and realizes she has a young son to care for. Jesse engages in a romantic relationship with Andrea, but ends it when he discovers that the 11-year-old boy who killed his friend "Combo" is her younger brother Tomas Cantillo (played by Angelo Martinez); however, Jesse continues to offer financial support to Andrea and Brock.
In Season 4, Andrea and Jesse reunite. When Brock gets sick, Jesse rushes to the hospital, and warns the doctors about a possible ricin poisoning, then stays there until the doctors notify him that Brock will survive (it turns out that the boy was indeed poisoned, although not with ricin but with lily of the valley; still, this timely warning put them on the right track). Jesse fears Brock was poisoned by a ricin cigarette Jesse was carrying. Walt tries to convince Jesse that Gus poisoned Brock. This manipulation by Walt renews Jesse's loyalty to him rather than to Gus. In the final season's episode "Confessions" Jesse suddenly changes his mind about leaving town and assuming a new identity when he realizes Walt poisoned Brock. Jesse then rushes to Walt's house and attempts to burn it down, but is intercepted by Hank.
Subsequently, Brock and Andrea are used as leverage against Jesse, who is kept prisoner by Todd and Jack's gang to cook meth for them. After Jesse attempts to escape, Todd shoots and kills Andrea while Jesse is forced to watch; Jesse is threatened with Brock's death if he attempts to escape again.
In El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, Jesse prepares to leave for a new life in Alaska and gives Ed a letter for Brock, who is the only person to whom he wants to say goodbye. After reading it, Ed promises to mail it from Mexico City the following month, ensuring that Brock will get it and that it cannot be traced to Jesse in Alaska.

Jane Margolis[edit]
Jane Margolis (played by Krysten Ritter) is Jesse's attractive neighbor, landlady, and lover. She is a prolific drafter, a skill that she has used to become a tattoo artist despite not having any tattoos. She is also a recovering drug addict. She discovers that Jesse also has a past interest in drawing, and they become intrigued by each other. They quickly become a couple, and she relapses into drug addiction, introducing Jesse to heroin. She later phones Walt and successfully threatens to expose him if he refuses to give Jesse his share of money from a major methamphetamine deal with Gus Fring, a deal that Jesse's drug use had nearly ruined. After Walt drops off Jesse's cut of nearly half a million dollars at his duplex, she and Jesse discuss running away together to New Zealand to start new lives. They go into Jesse's bedroom and see the heroin, but instead of throwing it away as they had promised themselves earlier, they get high and fall asleep. That night, Walt returns to the apartment and finds the drugged-out couple unconscious in bed. In the process of trying to wake Jesse from his stupor, Walt accidentally turns Jane onto her back. She begins to vomit while asleep, and Walt silently stands at the bedside watching her choke and then asphyxiate to death. Series creator Vince Gilligan explained Walt's motive for allowing Jane to die during a 2013 panel discussion about Breaking Bad at the Film at Lincoln Center, stating that Walt was afraid Jane's bad influence would lead Jesse to an early death from heroin overdose.[53]
Jane's death leads to significant repercussions throughout the rest of the series, and is largely responsible for Jesse's downward spiral in the first half of the third season, as well as her father Donald's deep depression which affects him to the point that he fails in his duties as an air-traffic controller and causes a midair collision between a 737 and a King Air 350 ("ABQ"). In the episode "Fly", while under the influence of sleeping pills, Walt is tormented by his guilt over his inaction the night of Jane's death; he reveals to Jesse that on the same night she died, he unknowingly met her father in a bar (realizing it was him only after seeing him on the news following the plane crash), and questions the statistical improbability of that sequence of events, but stops shy of revealing his involvement. Walt finally reveals the full extent of his role in Jane's death to Jesse in the series' ante-penultimate episode, "Ozymandias", as a final blow after he ordered Jack to kill him, deeming him responsible for Hank's death and the loss of his fortune.
Jane appears in a flashback in El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, reminding Jesse that sometimes the universe takes people towards bad places, and despite her freespirited nature she considers it better to make life's important decisions by yourself.

Brandon Mayhew[edit]
Brandon "Badger" Mayhew (played by Matt L. Jones) is Jesse's friend. Despite being on probation, Badger still uses drugs. He had a job as a street advertising mascot for an Albuquerque bank. During Season 1, Badger leaves the job to cook crystal meth with Jesse. Disagreements soon occur and they bitterly part ways. In Season 2, Badger and Jesse reconcile, and Badger helps clear the meth lab from Jesse's basement, then assists in hiding Jesse's RV, which previously contained the meth lab. Walt and Jesse later employ Badger to sell their product, but he is quickly arrested. Once released, Badger flees to California. After Badger returns to New Mexico, Jesse persuades him to start selling meth again. Badger later attends Narcotics Anonymous meetings with Skinny Pete, where they intend to find new buyers by informing a group of recovering drug addicts that "Blue Sky" (Walt and Jesse's product) is again available. Badger and Pete begin to find the meetings helpful and continue to attend regularly. Badger helps Jesse several more times, and is in attendance at Jesse's house party, which lasts several days. He is also the lead singer for TwaüghtHammër, the band in which he plays with Jesse. Badger is a science fiction fan and discusses at length his idea for a Star Trek script in the episode "Blood Money." He and Pete help Walt threaten the Schwartzes in the series finale, "Felina", by holding laser pointers to imitate the laser sights of sniper rifles. The ruse enables Walt to compel the Schwartzes to use Walt's remaining money to establish a trust for Walter Jr.
Badger and Skinny Pete appear in El Camino, helping Jesse hide for the night after he flees Jack's compound in Todd's El Camino and distracting police to give Jesse time to get away. As part of Pete's plan to aid Jesse, Pete stays at home and waits for police to respond to the El Camino's LoJack so he can tell them he traded his Thunderbird to Jesse for the El Camino. Badger drives Pete's Thunderbird several hours south of Albuquerque to make it appear that Jesse fled to Mexico. Jesse leaves Badger and Pete's house in Badger's Pontiac Fiero. After saying goodbye to Badger and Pete, Jesse continues to drive Badger's Fiero until he leaves Albuquerque with Ed to start his new life in Alaska. As later revealed by Francesca Liddy in Better Call Saul's "Breaking Bad", Skinny Pete and Badger's plan worked and the authorities later found the car by the Mexico border and as a result, they believe that Jesse has fled to Mexico.

Skinny Pete[edit]
Skinny Pete (played by Charles Baker) is Jesse's friend. He served time in prison with Tuco and introduces Jesse to him. Jesse recruits Pete to deal meth, although Pete is on probation. When Pete is mugged by two addicts, Jesse is forced to get the money and product back. After Badger is arrested and Combo is killed, Pete quits dealing for Jesse, fearing being sent back to prison and for his own safety. He decides to sell meth for Jesse again, albeit on a smaller scale. He attends Narcotics Anonymous meetings with Badger. After following the program together and staying clean, they relapse when Jesse tempts them with meth. After a few days of heavy meth use they leave Jesse's house. In the Season 5 episode "Hazard Pay", Pete is shown to be a talented pianist as he plays a small section of C.P.E. Bach's Solfeggietto at a music store.[54] He is also seen in the mid-season premiere "Blood Money", hanging out at Jesse's house and listening to Badger's Star Trek script.
Pete is seen briefly in the series finale, when Walt compels Gretchen and Elliot to use his remaining money to establish a trust for Walter Jr. and Badger and Pete to use laser pointers to make them believe hitmen will kill them if they do not comply. Pete and Badger also inform Walt that his trademark blue meth is still circulating, which Walt realizes means Jesse is still alive.
In El Camino, Pete and Badger give Jesse a place to sleep after he flees from Jack's compound in Todd's El Camino. The following morning, Pete devises a plan to help Jesse evade police. Badger and Pete give Jesse the money Walt paid them for their role in coercing Gretchen and Elliot. Pete stays with the El Camino and waits for police to respond to its Lojack so he can claim he obtained it by trading his Thunderbird to Jesse. Badger drives Pete's Thunderbird several hours south to make it appear Jesse fled to Mexico. Jesse departs Pete and Badger's house in Badger's Pontiac Fiero. Pete is last seen moving the El Camino to his driveway so it will be visible from the street when the police arrive. As later revealed by Francesca Liddy in Better Call Saul's "Breaking Bad", Skinny Pete and Badger's plan worked and the authorities later found the car by the Mexico border and as a result, they believe that Jesse has fled to Mexico.
Before the release of El Camino, Netflix dropped a teaser trailer showing the DEA interrogating Pete about Jesse's whereabouts. Though it was not used in the film, several critics speculated after the premiere that the scene likely occurred after Jesse left Pete and Badger's house, which would make the trailer his final chronological appearance.[55]

Christian Ortega[edit]
Christian "Combo" Ortega (played by Rodney Rush) is Jesse's friend and a dealer of his methamphetamine. He is also revealed to have been the one who originally owned the RV that Walt and Jesse cooked meth in, which Combo had sold to Jesse for $1,400 without his family's knowledge, which provides a big clue for Hank when tracking down "Heisenberg". He once got in legal trouble as a juvenile for stealing a Baby Jesus from a Nativity display, but was helped by Kim Wexler who served as his public defender.
Combo is later killed in "Mandala" when a rival drug group corners him while he is dealing methamphetamine on "foreign turf." Combo calls his friend Skinny Pete to report two men are "mad eyeballing" him. As he hangs up the phone, a kid on a bicycle shoots him several times, killing him on the street. Combo's death drives Jesse to spiral into drug addiction. Jesse eventually learns that the kid is Tomas Cantillo, the little brother of his new girlfriend Andrea and that Combo was murdered as part of a gang initiation. Jesse subsequently seeks retribution upon the dealers for Combo's murder and the murder of Tomas, putting him at odds with Gus Fring.

Adam and Diane Pinkman[edit]
Adam Pinkman (played by Michael Bofshever) and Diane Pinkman (played by Tess Harper) are Jesse Pinkman's parents. Due to Jesse's drug abuse, they have a strained relationship with their son, kicking him out of his late aunt's house (where Jesse had been living after serving as his aunt's caretaker and friend) after discovering a makeshift meth lab in the basement. Adam and Diane renovate the home, preparing it for sale. Unbeknownst to them, Jesse works with Saul Goodman to reacquire the home. Claiming to represent an anonymous buyer, Saul presents an offer significantly under market value. Offended, the Pinkmans begin to leave the negotiating table. As they are leaving, Saul reveals he knows the home used to host a meth lab, which is not revealed as required in the property disclosures; he then informs them that not declaring this is an illegal act. Realizing that the home price will plummet and they may be sued, Adam and Diane Pinkman reluctantly accept Saul's offer.
On the closing date, Jesse visits his parents at the newly renovated home. When Jesse heads to the front door, Diane tells Jesse that the house has been sold, and that he needs to leave, as the new owners will be stopping by shortly. When Jesse does not stop, a confused Mrs. Pinkman asks where he is going. Jesse reveals that he is the new owner.
The Pinkmans appear in El Camino, requesting in a news interview that Jesse turn himself in. Knowing his parents are probably being monitored by the police, Jesse calls, indicates a willingness to turn himself in, and asks them to pick him up. Before hanging up, Jesse tells his parents they did their best when raising him, and the life he has led and the problems he has caused are his fault, not theirs. After his parents leave, Jesse's call is revealed to be a ruse to draw them and police away from the house. Jesse enters unobserved and recovers two handguns from his parents' safe, a Colt Woodsman and an Iver Johnson Hammerless.[56]

Jake Pinkman[edit]
Jake Pinkman (played by Ben Petry) is Jesse's younger, over-achieving brother. Jesse accepts the blame for a joint belonging to Jake, which results in Jesse being thrown out of his parents' house. After apologizing to his brother, Jake asks for his joint back; Jesse responds by crushing it on the sidewalk and informing his brother that the marijuana is of poor quality anyway.
In El Camino, when Jesse calls his parents he asks about Jake, and they tell Jesse that Jake is attending a band camp in London. When Jesse attempts to open his parents' safe, he correctly guesses that the combination corresponds to Jake's birthday.

Wendy[edit]
Wendy (portrayed by Julia Minesci) is a meth-addicted street prostitute, who associates with Jesse Pinkman and is featured in the online promotional material as one of Saul Goodman's clients (as "Wendy S."). In Better Call Saul ("Hit and Run"), Jimmy and Kim hire her to help run a con against Howard Hamlin. Wendy alerts Kim to a car following them, which Wendy believes to be undercover police; Kim later discovers that she and Jimmy are being monitored as part of Mike and Gus's manhunt for Lalo Salamanca.
In Breaking Bad Wendy helps Jesse maintain an alibi and withstands an intense interrogation from Hank Schrader on Jesse's behalf. Recognizing her loyalty to him, Jesse tries to convince her to help him kill two drug dealers who convinced Tomás to murder Combo on Gus's orders. She declines at first, fearing the repercussions, revealing that she has a son whom she needs to protect, but Jesse persuades her to help by drawing a comparison between Tomás and her own son. At the last moment, she is spared the ordeal by Mike, who intervenes to take Jesse to a meeting with the drug dealers.
In the cold open of "Half Measures" which focuses on Wendy, the song "Windy" by The Association plays in the background, which is a pun on her name.

Associates of Saul Goodman[edit]
Marco Pasternak[edit]
Marco Pasternak (portrayed by Mel Rodriguez) is a scam artist and one of Jimmy McGill's lifelong friends. A high school classmate of Jimmy's in Cicero, Illinois, they frequently worked cons together, including the "fake Rolex". After Chuck helps secure Jimmy's release following his arrest for the "Chicago sunroof" incident, Chuck requires Jimmy to move to Albuquerque and work a legitimate job. Jimmy stops by his and Marco's favorite bar to say goodbye, leaving Marco disappointed.
After suffering a breakdown because of Chuck's attempts to prevent him from rising in the legal profession, Jimmy returns to Cicero and reunites with Marco, who now works for his brother-in-law as a standpipe installer. After a week of running successful scams, Jimmy informs Marco he is an attorney and needs to return to Albuquerque. Marco begs Jimmy to pull one more scam before he goes, and Jimmy agrees. While running the "fake Rolex" con, Marco suffers a heart attack. Before he dies, he tells Jimmy that the week they spent together was the best of his life. Jimmy inherits Marco's pinky ring, which is too big for him. Despite the poor fit, Jimmy begins to wear Marco's ring as a symbol of his newfound willingness to cut corners to get ahead in the legal profession.

Ernesto[edit]
Ernesto (portrayed by Brandon K. Hampton) is an employee of HHM and a friend of Jimmy McGill and Kim Wexler. After Chuck McGill told Jimmy that he disapproved of his legal career and did not view him as a peer, Jimmy asked Howard to ensure Chuck continued to be looked after, including bringing him groceries and newspapers. Howard assigned Chuck's daily care to Ernesto.
After Chuck suspects Jimmy of altering Mesa Verde documents to regain the bank as a client for Kim, he enlists Ernesto to investigate, and Ernesto eventually finds the all-night copy store where Jimmy carried out the alterations. Ernesto brings Chuck to the store to interview the clerk but Chuck's EHS symptoms cause him to faint and hit his head on a counter. Jimmy was hiding nearby after bribing the clerk to deny having seen him on his earlier visit, and enters the store to provide first aid to Chuck. At the hospital, Chuck wonders how Jimmy happened on the scene so quickly. Ernesto covers for Jimmy by falsely claiming that out of concern for Chuck's health, he called Jimmy after identifying the store but before bringing Chuck to the location.
As part of his plot to get Jimmy disbarred, Chuck manipulates Ernesto into hearing part of Jimmy's recorded confession to altering the Mesa Verde documents, assuming that even though Chuck has sworn him to silence, Ernesto will inform Kim and Jimmy. Ernesto informs Kim, who in turn informs Jimmy. After Jimmy angrily breaks into Chuck's house to destroy the tape and is witnessed by Howard and a private investigator, which enables Chuck to have Jimmy prosecuted, HHM fires Ernesto for disclosing confidential information.[57][58]

Huell Babineaux[edit]
Huell Babineaux (played by Lavell Crawford) is Saul Goodman's bodyguard, who also executes various intimidation tactics and performs other errands. Hired more for his size and pickpocketing skills than his intelligence, he has a condition approximating narcolepsy (e.g., he falls asleep at odd times, such as when standing up or while on security detail), and has digestive problems that keep him from being as stoic as Saul would like.[59] During the bar association hearing considering Jimmy McGill's disbarment over his break in at Chuck's house, he hires Huell to plant a cell phone battery in his brother Chuck's pocket as part of a strategy to discredit Chuck's claimed electromagnetic hypersensitivity, as Chuck believes he suffers from EHS. Jimmy later hires Huell to serve as a bodyguard while Jimmy conducts his business re-selling pre-paid cellular phones. Huell is arrested after he inadvertently assaults a police officer while protecting Jimmy, and faces up to two and a half years in prison as a result. Jimmy's law license is still suspended, so he brings in Kim Wexler to defend Huell. Huell plans to flee rather than go to prison, so Kim and Jimmy forge dozens of letters describing Huell as a hero and denouncing his arrest. The con forces the prosecutor to accept a plea bargain that ensures Huell does not go to prison. As part of their plot against Howard Hamlin, Jimmy and Kim enlist Huell's help to make a copy of Howard's car keys with the help of one of Huell's associates. After successfully making the keys, Huell questions why Jimmy and Kim are bothering with such illegal activity when they have legitimate jobs as great lawyers.
In Breaking Bad, when Ted Beneke goes on a spending spree with the money Skyler arranged to give him, rather than paying his IRS debt as she intended, Huell and Kuby intimidate him into paying the IRS. Though they did not intend violence, Ted attempts to flee, falls, and suffers head and neck injuries that leave him paraplegic. In "Buried", Saul sends Huell and Kuby to collect Walt's money from a storage locker, and in "Confessions", Saul tasks Huell with pickpocketing Jesse's marijuana so Jesse will not be high when he contacts Ed the "disappearer" for a new identity. It is while Jesse is waiting for Ed that he realizes his marijuana is gone and understands that Huell had earlier pickpocketed from him the ricin cigarette that Walt had intended for Jesse to use in killing Gus. Jesse's realization that Huell stole the ricin cigarette enables him to understand that Walt must have poisoned Brock in order to turn Jesse against Gus (which is true, although Walt did not use ricin).
Hank and Gomez later interrogate Huell to learn where Walt hid his money, telling him falsely that Walt intends to kill him to ensure that no one can trace Walt's drug-dealing past. They use a staged photo of Jesse, who appears to have been killed with a gunshot to the head, to coax Huell into revealing that he and Kuby packed Walt's money into seven barrels, then loaded the barrels into a rented van. Huell also reveals that the van was so dirty on the outside when Walt returned that they washed it before returning it, implying that Walt's money was buried somewhere in the desert. Hank and Gomez tell Huell to wait until they come back for him, but they are killed and never return.
Six years after Huell's final appearance on Breaking Bad, and three days before the release of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, a countdown was shared on Breaking Bad's social media channels. Throughout the countdown, multiple videos were shown of Huell still sitting impatiently in the safehouse where Hank and Gomez left him, watching the events of "Felina" on the news.[60] Upon the countdown's conclusion, Huell, now tired of waiting, says "screw this", puts on his jacket and leaves the safehouse as the title credits of El Camino appear on his television.[61]
In the Better Call Saul episode "Breaking Bad", Francesca tells Saul that Huell is back home in New Orleans now. As the DEA had taken him in under false pretenses, they were forced to let him go in the end.

Ed Galbraith[edit]
Ed Galbraith (played by Robert Forster), also known as "the Disappearer", specializes in providing fugitives with new identities and new places to live.[62] He operates a legitimate vacuum sales and service center, Best Quality Vacuum, as a front for this criminal business.[63][64]
Though mentioned in earlier episodes (such as in "Crawl Space"), Ed first appears in "Granite State". As Walter is identified as Heisenberg and becomes the target of a manhunt, both Walt and Saul seek Ed's criminal services. Ed first helps Saul escape to Omaha, Nebraska. He later takes Walter White to New Hampshire, hiding him away in a cabin in a rural area. During Walt's time in hiding, Ed often visits Walt, bringing him supplies and chemotherapy, though he warns that if Walt leaves the location, their business relationship will be over for good. A lonely Walt also takes to paying Ed to spend time with him and play cards.
In El Camino, Jesse approaches Ed for relocation. Ed demands $125,000 to aid Jesse, plus $125,000 for the previous occasion Jesse was supposed to use his services, but failed to appear. Jesse is $1,800 short and Ed refuses to help. After Jesse obtains the money, Ed smuggles him to a car parked near Haines, Alaska and provides him with false identification and a cover story. Jesse gives Ed a farewell letter for Brock Cantillo, which Ed promises to mail from Mexico City in the near future, wishing Jesse luck on his new life and noting that not many people like them get a fresh start.
In Better Call Saul, in the flashforward at the beginning of season 5's "Magic Man", (set after the events of El Camino) Saul (in his new identity as Gene Takavic) calls Ed for a second extraction after a cab driver named Jeff recognizes him. Ed recognizes Saul's voice and agrees to a second extraction, warning that it will cost double. Saul agrees and Ed schedules the extraction and location, but after a moment of consideration, Saul changes his mind and tells Ed that he will "fix it [himself]" instead.
In Better Call Saul season 6's "Axe and Grind", Saul and Kim Wexler look at Dr. Caldera's little black book of criminal contacts which are all coded. However, amongst the pages, are several Best Quality Vacuum business cards, revealing that Caldera has connections to Ed and also possibly explaining how Saul ultimately first becomes aware of Ed and his services. Kim looks at one of the cards with confusion and interest for a moment before putting it away again. In the series finale, "Saul Gone," Saul attempts to call Ed for another extraction after his cover is finally blown, but Saul is captured by the police before he can make the call.
Robert Forster's appearances as Ed in El Camino and Better Call Saul were among his final roles. He died of brain cancer on October 11, 2019, the same day the movie was released, though he appeared in Better Call Saul as Ed posthumously. Ed is one of the only five characters to appear in Breaking Bad, Better Call Saul, and El Camino, along with Mike Ehrmantraut, Walter White, Jesse Pinkman, and Austin Ramey. The Better Call Saul episode "Magic Man" was dedicated to Forster.

Francesca Liddy[edit]
Francesca Liddy (played by Tina Parker) is Saul Goodman's outspoken receptionist and secretary. Originally employed at the New Mexico Motor Vehicle Division, Jimmy hired her for the Wexler-McGill law firm. After Kim's car accident, Jimmy and Kim closed their office, and Francesca returned to the MVD. When Jimmy started practicing as Saul Goodman, Francesca returned to work for him.
In "Quite a Ride", a flashforward to 2010 shows Saul and Francesca frantically clearing out his office. She agrees to be at a telephone booth on November 12 (Jimmy's birthday) at 3 p.m. to receive a call. He gives her money and an attorney's business card and tells her that if she needs help she should say "Jimmy" sent her. As she leaves, Saul claims the last few years have been "quite a ride", then calls Ed Galbraith for a new identity.
In the Better Call Saul episode "Breaking Bad", in a flashforward, Francesca is now an apartment building manager and she answers the prearranged phone call which proves to be from Saul himself. After getting paid via money that Saul had left behind for her, Francesca reveals that the DEA had found and seized all of Saul's hidden assets. With Walt dead and Jesse Pinkman having supposedly fled the country, Saul is now their sole target. At Saul's request, Francesca tells him about what became of Skyler White and Huell Babineaux before revealing that Kim had called her asking after Saul.

Patrick Kuby[edit]
Patrick Kuby (played by Bill Burr) is one of Saul Goodman's hired hands. He assists in facilitating the car wash sale to the Whites by impersonating an environmental inspector, and later intimidates Ted Beneke with Huell's help. He also aids Walt, Jesse, and Mike in their train robbery and helps Huell collect Walt's money from storage. Before moving to Albuquerque, Kuby was involved in organized crime in Boston.[65]

Joey Dixon[edit]
Marshall Joseph "Joey" Dixon (played by Josh Fadem), aka Camera Guy, is the cameraman of the college filmmaking crew Jimmy McGill occasionally uses to shoot TV ads and other events.[66] Jimmy originally referred to him only as Camera Guy.[66] Jimmy also initially refers to the other crew members only by the functions they perform.[67] After graduating, Joey is shown guest lecturing at the college and working in its audiovisual equipment center. He, Phil, and Cheri would go on to create the "Filmmaker Training" series of videos of informational tips and tricks for filmmaking, in which Kim also made an appearance.

Phil[edit]
Phil, also known as Sound Guy (played by Julian Bonfiglio) handles the microphones and audio for the college filmmaking crew Jimmy sometimes hires.[68]

Cheri[edit]
Cheri, also known as Drama Girl or Make-Up Girl (played by Hayley Holmes),[69] assists Joey's film crew and also arranges hair and make-up for individuals preparing to appear on camera. First referred to as Make-Up Girl, she later indicates she has been attending acting classes. After she impersonates several individuals on the phone to provide testimonials for Huell in "Coushatta", Jimmy begins referring to her as Drama Girl.[70] In "Winner", Jimmy and Kim fake several events designed to show Jimmy's remorse over Chuck's death, hoping this will lead to reinstatement of his law license.[71] During a catered celebration to mark the dedication of a law library in Chuck's name, Cheri works as a waitress and aids Jimmy and Kim's deception by spreading the story among guests that Jimmy anonymously financed the project.[71] When Jimmy and Kim need to re-shoot their photos of the actor pretending to be the Sandpiper case mediator, Cheri arrives on short notice to work on his hair and make-up.[72] Because she has been pulled from a dress rehearsal for a stage adaptation of The Dark Crystal, she arrives in her Kira character's make-up and costume.[72]

Lance[edit]
Lance (played by Elisha Yaffe) is a cashier at the copy shop where Jimmy doctors Chuck's Mesa Verde documents.[73] Jimmy bribes Lance to lie for him when Ernesto brings Chuck to the store to question him.[74]

Lenny[edit]
Lenny (played by John Ennis) is a grocery store employee and amateur actor hired by Jimmy and Kim to impersonate judge Rand Casimiro in still photos, as part of their ploy to discredit Howard Hamlin and force a settlement on the Sandpiper Crossing class-action lawsuit.

Jeff[edit]
Jeff (portrayed by Don Harvey in seasons 4–5 and Pat Healy in season 6[75]) is an eccentric cab driver from Albuquerque who recognizes Jimmy under his Gene Takavic identity in Omaha. Jeff approaches Jimmy on his lunchbreak with his friend Buddy and asks Jimmy to do his iconic "Better Call Saul!" catchphrase and point. Although initially hesitant Jimmy gives in and Jeff tells him to ask for him whenever he needs a ride.
Jimmy finds and befriends Jeff's mother, Marion, and she invites him back to her house. While there Jeff confronts Jimmy, and Jimmy offers to get him into "the game". Jeff, Jimmy, and Buddy plan a robbery at the mall where Jimmy works. Jimmy creates a floor plan of the store they will be robbing and recreates it in an open field for Jeff to practice his route. When the day of the robbery arrives, Jimmy distracts the security guard while Jeff robs the store. All is going well until Jeff slips and knocks himself out, forcing Jimmy to fake a depressive episode until he can regain consciousness. Eventually, Jeff wakes up and completes the robbery. Afterward as the three of them are celebrating, Jimmy reveals that he purposely set up the robbery in such a way that if Jeff tries to snitch on his true identity they will both be arrested. As he leaves, Marion tells Jimmy that she thinks he is a good influence on Jeff.
Jimmy later resumes working with Jeff and his friend Buddy in a new series of scams involving identity theft. Buddy backs out when he learns their latest target has cancer; Gene cuts him out of the operation and forces Jeff to drive him to the man's house so that he can break in himself. While Gene is inside, Jeff panics when he sees a police car idling behind him and crashes his taxi into a parked vehicle, leading to his arrest. In addition, the homeowner came out and accused Jeff of robbing him, adding to his legal troubles. Gene promises to bail out Jeff and calls Marion asking her to accompany him, but Marion becomes suspicious and uses the laptop Jeff bought her with the department store money to discover Gene's true identity as Saul Goodman. When Gene is arrested, no mention is made of his crimes from Omaha so it's unclear what happened to Jeff afterwards, but Gene had told Jeff that there was no proof of Jeff having committed the robbery and he could likely get those charges dismissed.

Buddy[edit]
Buddy (portrayed by Max Bickelhaup) is a friend of Jeff's who accompanies him to the mall when Jeff approaches Jimmy under his "Gene Takavic" alias and has him admit his true identity. Jimmy later offers to get Jeff into "the game" by training him and Buddy in robbing a department store at the mall where Jimmy works. Buddy sneaks Jeff into the mall by having him lay in a shipping container and transporting it into the department store's loading dock. Jimmy convinces the store's supervisor over the phone to hold the container overnight, allowing Jeff to enter the store during after-hours and steal expensive merchandise. After the robbery is complete, Jimmy warns Jeff and Buddy to stay away from him lest he report the crime to the authorities.
Jimmy later re-enlists Jeff and Buddy in a new series of cons where Jimmy befriends wealthy single men at bars and gets them drunk, Jeff drives them home while giving them water laced with barbiturates, and Buddy breaks into the marks' homes while they are unconscious and photographs their IDs and financial records, which Jeff later sells to a broker. However, Buddy backs out of the con when their latest target is found to have pancreatic cancer, which Buddy's father suffered from. Jimmy cuts Buddy out of the operation and forces Jeff to drive him to the target's house so he can break in himself.

New Mexico legal community[edit]
Bill Oakley[edit]
William "Bill" Oakley (portrayed by Peter Diseth) is a deputy district attorney who has a friendly rivalry with Jimmy.[76] When Jimmy goes to work as an associate at Davis & Main, Oakley expresses envy at his salary and fringe benefits.[77] When Jimmy is arrested for the break in at Chuck's, Oakley first appears to gloat at Jimmy's booking, but then offers to expedite the proceedings by getting Jimmy's first court appearance moved up on the docket.[78] After Jimmy's law license is reinstated, he employs his camera crew to stage a phony news interview with a surprised Oakley, generating publicity for Jimmy's new Saul Goodman persona.[79] After Jimmy becomes a pariah at the courthouse, Oakley tells him it is because word of his representation of the Salamancas has become widespread.[80] In the flashforwards in the episode "Breaking Bad", Bill is revealed to have eventually left the DA's office and become a defense attorney with an advertisement for Bill's services replacing Saul's former ad on a park bench. In the series finale "Saul Gone", Saul hires Bill as his defense attorney after getting caught.

Rich Schweikart[edit]
Richard Schweikart (played by Dennis Boutsikaris) is the co-founder of the Schweikart & Cokely law firm.[81][82] Rich is the lead attorney for the Sandpiper retirement homes in HHM's lawsuit against the company. He observes that Kim Wexler is both highly skilled and underappreciated at HHM, and offers her a job at S&C, which she declines. Kim later starts a solo practice with Mesa Verde Bank as her only client, but begins to spend more time and effort on pro bono criminal defense cases that she finds more appealing than banking law. She approaches Rich about joining S&C, and becomes a partner in charge of the firm's new banking division, including the Mesa Verde account. Kim devotes increasing time and effort to her pro bono cases, which eventually causes her to quit S&C and her representation of Mesa Verde. When Jimmy and Kim's tricks lead to Howard's erratic behavior at a mediation session for the Sandpiper case, Rich succeeds at compelling Hamlin, Hamlin and McGill and Davis & Main to accept a lower settlement than what they wanted. After Howard's death, Rich attends his funeral at HHM, expressing his admiration and respect for Howard and revealing to Jimmy and Kim that HHM is downsizing, moving to a smaller office and changing names.

Cliff Main[edit]
Clifford Main (played by Ed Begley Jr.) is a senior partner at the Davis & Main law firm in Santa Fe.[83] When the Sandpiper case becomes too big for HHM alone, they affiliate with D&M. Kim recommends Jimmy to Cliff, and D&M hires Jimmy as an associate. Jimmy's unauthorized airing of a television ad soliciting clients for the Sandpiper lawsuit angers Cliff and the firm's partners. The ensuing scrutiny of his work motivates Jimmy to quit, but at the thought of losing his benefits, Jimmy opts on gradually angering his colleagues until Cliff eventually fires him, fully aware it was Jimmy's intention for him to do so. The firm continues to work with HHM on the Sandpiper case. When Jimmy and Kim decide to obtain Jimmy's share of the settlement or judgment sooner by forcing a resolution of the Sandpiper case, they take advantage of Cliff's friendship with Howard to smear the latter's reputation. In the process, Kim impresses Cliff who offers to use his connections to help build her pro bono law firm legitimately which she at first accepts. However, Kim ultimately puts the con over the chance at legitimacy and turns her back on the meeting that Cliff had set up for her. The con is successful, Kim and Jimmy are able to convince the counsel for Sandpiper and Cliff that Howard is an unstable cocaine addict. Following the con, Cliff cuts ties with Howard and settles the Sandpiper case himself. Following Howard's unexpected murder, Cliff and the New Mexico legal community are fooled into believing it was a drug-driven suicide. Cliff comforts Cheryl, Howard's widow, at the memorial service. Kim lies to Cheryl about the addiction and Cliff regretfully informs her of Howard's erratic behavior, convincing her of the con.

Erin Brill[edit]
Erin Brill (portrayed by Jessie Ennis) is a first-year associate at Davis & Main. She is assigned to supervise Jimmy after he runs afoul of his D&M bosses, which serves as one of the motivations for him to quit. When Irene, the class representative in the lawsuit against Sandpiper Crossing, turns down a proposed resolution because the lawyers convince her waiting will result in a bigger settlement, her friends turn against her. Jimmy wants his share of the judgment sooner, so he tricks her into accepting, but her friends remain distrustful. Jimmy then arranges for Irene and her friends to overhear him confessing his tricks to Erin, which prevents the case from being resolved immediately but restores Irene's friendships. As the case continues, a meeting of residents at Sandpiper's Albuquerque facility reveals they are considering accepting the company's offer. Erin's attempt to mollify them begins to go off track, but Howard's timely intervention causes them to agree to continue holding out for a bigger settlement. Erin manages the conference call during the Sandpiper mediation conference and is the first to notice that Howard Hamlin's eyes have dilated from contact with the drug Jimmy and Kim procured from Dr. Caldera. After the case is settled, Erin is the one to announce it to everyone on the phone.

Paige Novick[edit]
Paige Novick (portrayed by Cara Pifko) is the senior counsel of Mesa Verde and one of Kim's clients.[84][85] When Kim is relegated to menial document review work at Hamlin, Hamlin and McGill, she works her professional, personal, and law school contacts in hopes that landing a major new client will help get her back in Howard's good graces. Paige and Kim were law school classmates, which leads to Paige and Mesa Verde CEO Kevin Wachtell bringing the bank's business to HHM. When Kim leaves HHM, Kevin and Paige agree that Mesa Verde will be a client of her new firm, but Chuck succeeds at winning them back to HHM. Jimmy's sabotage of Chuck's Mesa Verde work causes Kevin and Paige to return to Kim. After Jimmy and Kim humiliate Chuck at Jimmy's bar disciplinary hearing in order to prevent Jimmy's disbarment, Paige gloats over Chuck's demise, which causes Kim to feel guilty and visibly angers her. As Kim becomes disillusioned with Mesa Verde's tactics, she and Paige are put somewhat at odds. Later, after surrendering her law license, Kim mentions that Paige has agreed to take on her clients.

Suzanne Ericsen[edit]
Suzanne Ericsen (portrayed by Julie Pearl) is a deputy district attorney. When Huell is arrested, Suzanne refuses to negotiate, so Jimmy and Kim trick her into agreeing to a plea bargain.[86] When Jimmy, now practicing law as Saul Goodman, attempts to negotiate several plea deals at once, Suzanne refuses, so he arranges a situation that enables him to trick her into accepting.[87] Suzanne and the detective investigating the murder Lalo committed under an alias later connect Jimmy to Lalo and Nacho, and Suzanne asks Kim to persuade Jimmy to inform on the Salamancas.[88] In El Camino, Suzanne is visible on a television screen as she stands behind SAC Austin Ramey while Ramey briefs reporters about the events that took place at Jack's compound.[89] In "Saul Gone", she calls Kim to inform her of Saul's arrest and says he is going to give testimony that impacts Kim.

Viola Goto[edit]
Viola Goto (portrayed by Keiko Agena) is a paralegal who works for Kim Wexler.[90] When Kim leaves Hamlin Hamlin & McGill to begin a solo practice, Mesa Verde Bank retains her as their outside counsel and Kim hires Viola to assist her.[90] When Kim becomes bored with banking law and begins to accept pro bono criminal defense cases, she hands off more and more of her Mesa Verde work to Viola.[90] Kim later convinces Schweikart & Cokely to hire her as a partner in charge of their new banking division, with Mesa Verde as their major banking client, and Viola follows Kim to S&C.[91] When Kim aids Jimmy to defend Huell Babineaux during Jimmy's law license suspension, Viola assists Kim in researching the relevant statutes so Jimmy and Kim can plan their defense.[91] After Kim asks Jimmy to represent Everett Acker to prevent Acker from being evicted by Mesa Verde, Viola provides Kim frequent updates about Jimmy's machinations.[92] Viola is present at the meeting between Kim, Kevin Wachtell, Paige Novick, Rich Schweikart and Jimmy (as Saul Goodman) when Jimmy shocks everyone by making exorbitant demands of Kevin, then pressuring Kevin to agree to a better deal for Acker than what Kevin had previously been willing to accept.[92] When Kim leaves S&C, Viola continues to work there as a paralegal.[92] After Jimmy and Kim decide to force a settlement of the Sandpiper case by ruining Howard's reputation, Kim meets with Viola, ostensibly to apologize for abruptly leaving S&C.[93] Viola tells Kim she admires Kim's commitment to helping pro bono clients who have nowhere else to turn, but the meeting is a ploy.[93] S&C represents the Sandpiper Crossing nursing home chain, and Kim uses her conversation with Viola to obtain the name of the retired judge who will mediate the Sandpiper case.[93]

Rand Casimiro[edit]
Rand Casimiro (portrayed by John Posey) is a retired judge and former colleague of Clifford Main, who is enlisted as the mediator in the Sandpiper Crossing class-action lawsuit. Kim and Jimmy hire an actor to impersonate Casimiro and stage photos depicting Jimmy offering Casimiro a $20,000 cash bribe, which they pass onto Howard Hamlin via his private investigator (who is in fact a con man working for Kim and Jimmy). Howard recognizes Casimiro from the photos during the settlement conference and embarrasses himself in front of his peers by accusing Casimiro of corruption, derailing the meeting and forcing HHM to accept a lower settlement than they initially sought.

Other characters[edit]
Hugo Archilleya[edit]
Hugo Archilleya (played by Pierre Barrera) is a former custodian at JP Wynne High School. When Walt had to leave class to vomit (a consequence of his chemotherapy), Hugo comforted him and cleaned up after him. After the DEA connects missing school equipment to methamphetamine production, Hugo is one of the initial suspects because of the access his custodial duties afford him. Hugo is soon placed under arrest for possession of marijuana and fired; after a search of his home, more marijuana is found but no methamphetamine or items that could connect him with the meth investigation.

Ted Beneke[edit]
Theodore "Ted" Beneke (played by Christopher Cousins) is the president and owner of Beneke Fabricators. He gives Skyler her old job back as his accountant during the second season. Ted has always been attracted to Skyler but does not make any advances after she returns. Ted commits tax fraud to keep the company alive and save everyone's jobs, which he admits to Skyler when she finds irregularities in the company's books. Skyler has an affair with Ted in season three to exact revenge upon Walt, but ignores Ted's offer to leave some of her things at his house. When Walt finds out about their affair, he tries to confront Ted, who hides in his office. This escalates into a scene where Walt is escorted out by security guards and the company staff becomes aware of Skyler's relationship with Ted. Skyler gets angry at Ted when he shows up at her house to ask about their relationship, and she later severs both her personal and professional ties with him.
In season 4, Ted meets with Skyler, who is now running a car wash, and notifies her of an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) investigation into his company's taxes.[94] Since Skyler kept the books, she can be linked to Ted's tax fraud, likely placing her entire family under surveillance, so she intervenes by pretending at Ted's meeting with the IRS to be an unqualified bookkeeper hired only for her looks.[94] Her supposed incompetence forestalls a full investigation, provided Ted pays the back taxes and penalties.[94] Skyler arranges to provide Ted the money by using the proceeds from Walt's meth production to have Saul pretend a long-lost dead relative in Luxembourg left Ted an inheritance.[94] Saul discovers that instead of paying the IRS, Ted leased a new Mercedes and is using the funds to reopen his business.[94] When Skyler urges Ted to pay the IRS first, he refuses, so Skyler tells him the money came from her.[94] Ted still refuses to pay the IRS and Skyler perceives him to be blackmailing her into paying both his tax bill and the costs to reopen his business.[95] Skyler has Saul send two of his men—Huell and Kuby—to force Beneke to write the check to the IRS.[94] They succeed, but Ted panics and attempts to flee, tripping on a loose rug and crashing headfirst into a counter.[94]
At the start of the fifth season, Saul informs Skyler that something happened to Ted, causing her to conclude that he died. Saul tells her that Ted is alive, but hospitalized. When Skyler visits him, she sees that Ted is rigidly sitting upright and wearing a halo brace.[94] Ted tells Skyler he lied to medical personnel and police, claiming his broken neck resulted from an accidental fall, and that because he fears for the safety of his family, he will never mention how the injury occurred.[94] Recognizing that Ted has been intimidated into keeping quiet about the source of his money, Skyler goes along with Ted's perception by coldly replying "Good" to his promise of silence.

Rebecca Bois[edit]
Rebecca Bois (played by Ann Cusack) is Chuck McGill's ex-wife and a concert violinist.[96] Although their divorce was amicable, it is stated that Chuck's electromagnetic hypersensitivity started soon afterwards.
In 2002, Chuck attempted to reconcile and reconnect with Rebecca over dinner with Jimmy's help. He lies to Rebecca about his symptoms and becomes overwhelmed when Rebecca takes a phone call. Chuck slaps the phone from Rebecca's hand in a fit and rather than apologizing, calls Rebecca rude for taking a call at dinner. Rebecca leaves soon after.
Later Jimmy invites Rebecca to his disciplinary hearing while Chuck is on the stand. Chuck apologizes for hiding his disability from her to which she shows complete sympathy and understanding, wondering why he did not simply tell her in the first place. However when it is shown that Chuck does not in fact suffer from EHS, Rebecca watches in horror as Chuck rants about Jimmy. After the hearing Rebecca tries to talk with Chuck in his house but he refuses to talk. She visits a celebrating Jimmy and Kim in their office and begs Jimmy to make amends with Chuck but Jimmy refuses. Realizing she was just a pawn to help his case, Rebecca tells Jimmy that Chuck was right about him.
After Chuck's death Rebecca attends his funeral crying profusely. Afterwards as Chuck's will is being read it is revealed that Chuck left his house (which is mostly a burnt-out wreck after Chuck's suicide) to Rebecca, although she allows Jimmy to take anything he wishes from it.

Dr. Caldera[edit]
Dr. Caldera (played by Joe DeRosa) is an Albuquerque veterinarian.[97] He secretly serves as a middleman to put criminals in contact with each other.[98] In one instance, when Daniel Wormald desires to have a bodyguard when he carries out a drug deal with Nacho Varga, he contacts Caldera, who puts three individuals including Mike Ehrmantraut in touch with Wormald.[98] In addition, Caldera sometimes renders "off the books" medical aid to criminals, enabling them to avoid having their wounds reported to the police.[97] Individuals who visit his office for criminal activities often bring pets with them, enabling Caldera's examination of the animal to serve as a cover for the visit's real purpose.[97] As revealed in season 6's "Axe and Grind", Caldera has a connection to Ed Galbraith, the "disappearer". In the same episode, Caldera reveals that he is retiring from his role as a middleman and shows Jimmy and Kim his encoded notebook of criminal contacts that he intends to sell. In a flashforward in "Wine and Roses", Caldera's notebook is amongst the possessions being shown taken from Saul's mansion, suggesting that Saul is the one who eventually bought it from him.

Tomás Cantillo[edit]
Tomás Cantillo (played by Angelo Martinez) is Andrea Cantillo's younger brother.[99] He murdered Jesse's friend Combo on the orders of rival drug dealers. After Jesse learns the truth, the dealers murder Tomás, possibly with the permission of their boss Gus Fring. Jesse's effort to seek revenge leads to a rift between Gus, Walt and Jesse.

Clovis[edit]
Clovis (played by Tom Kiesche) is Badger's cousin who operates a vehicle towing and repair service. When Jesse's RV quits running, Clovis charges him an exorbitant amount to tow and store the vehicle, due to its cargo. Clovis repairs the RV and catches Jesse sleeping in it after Jesse has scaled the fence (and destroyed a portable toilet in the process) after being evicted from his home. Clovis orders Jesse to pay for the repairs and property damage and then threatens to sell off Jesse's inventory to cover the repairs, when Jesse claims he cannot furnish immediate payment. Jesse again breaks into the gated lot and drives through the gate without paying for the repairs. He later returns to pay Clovis for the repairs and damages and arranges to store the RV inside Clovis's gated lot for $500 per week. Clovis later sells Jesse a used red Toyota Tercel hatchback. Jesse decides to retrieve the RV, but Walter has warned Clovis that the DEA is looking for it, forcing Clovis to bring it to a junkyard to be destroyed.

Louis Corbett[edit]
Louis Corbett (played by Kyle Swimmer in season one and Caleb Landry Jones in seasons two and three) is Walter Jr.'s best friend. They both attend JP Wynne High School. He frequently gives Walter Jr. rides to school and helps him set up a PayPal account for donations to Walter Jr.'s website.

Dr. Delcavoli[edit]
Dr. Delcavoli (played by David House) is Walt's physician during the first two seasons. He is said to be one of the top 10 oncologists in the United States.

Stacey Ehrmantraut[edit]
Stacey Ehrmantraut (portrayed by Kerry Condon) is Mike Ehrmantraut's widowed daughter-in-law and the mother of Kaylee, Mike's granddaughter.[100]

Cheryl Hamlin[edit]
Cheryl Hamlin (portrayed by Sandrine Holt) is Howard Hamlin's wife. In "Axe and Grind", Howard presents a coffee topped with the latte art of a peace sign to Cheryl, from whom he is obviously estranged. She dismissively pours it into a travel mug, destroying the art. Howard tells her about the problem he has been having with Jimmy and says that he is attempting to solve it.
Cheryl is widowed in the episode "Plan and Execution" when Lalo Salamanca shoots and kills Howard. In "Fun and Games", Cheryl is present at Howard's HHM memorial service. Jimmy and Kim attempt to provide condolences, but she mentions that Howard informed her of their harassment campaign. When she expresses suspicions of Jimmy and Kim's story about Howard's death, because she does not believe he used cocaine, Kim fabricates a story about seeing Howard abusing drugs while she was still at HHM. Kim then shifts blame by suggesting Cheryl was inattentive and failed to notice Howard's supposed drug problem, causing Cheryl to break down in tears.
After deciding to confess in 2010, Kim visits Cheryl with an affidavit detailing Kim and Jimmy's destruction of Howard's reputation, as well as the real circumstances surrounding his death, keeping secret only her knowledge of Jimmy's identity and location. Kim says she has given a copy of the document to the district attorney, but surmises that she will not face prosecution given the lack of physical evidence and witnesses. When Jimmy hires Bill Oakley as his defense counsel, Oakley informs Jimmy of Kim's confession and suggests that Cheryl has ample grounds for a wrongful death lawsuit, stating that Cheryl is "out shopping for lawyers as we speak."

Old Joe[edit]
Old Joe (played by Larry Hankin) is the owner of a local junkyard. He aids Walt and Jesse on several occasions by using his car crusher in addition to sharing his knowledge of the legal limits on police procedure and evidence gathering. He also provides the magnet system used to wipe the evidence from Gus's laptop, and constructs the portable laboratory equipment used in the Vamonos Pest undercover meth lab operation. In El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, Jesse contacts him in order to get rid of Todd's El Camino, which Joe agrees to do for free. However, Joe discovers that the police just activated the LoJack GPS tracker, causing him to flee, while advising Jesse, Skinny Pete and Badger to do the same.

Betsy and Craig Kettleman[edit]
Betsy Kettleman (played by Julie Ann Emery) and her husband Craig Kettleman (played by Jeremy Shamos) initially appear as clients of  Hamlin, Hamlin & McGill (HHM), and later Jimmy McGill. Craig, the county treasurer, is being investigated for the disappearance of $1.6 million in government funds and considers hiring Jimmy. He and his wife meet with Jimmy at a diner but Betsy is hesitant. They decide to go to HHM, which angers Jimmy. A few days later, the Kettlemans receive an anonymous tip that their family is in danger. The call was made by Jimmy, who fears Nacho might hurt the family to steal the stolen cash. The Kettlemans and their children decide to stage a kidnapping and camp out in the hills behind their home. Jimmy finds them and discovers they are in possession of the stolen cash. They pay him $30,000 to remain quiet.[101] At a meeting with Kim Wexler of HHM, the Kettlemans consider a plea deal that includes return of the money and a sixteen-month prison sentence for Craig. Betsy wants to go to trial but Kim tells her that Craig faces 30 years in prison if he is convicted. Betsy rejects the plea deal, fires Kim, and hires Jimmy. Jimmy counsels the Kettlemans to accept the plea bargain but Betsy once again refuses. She blackmails Jimmy into helping them by pointing out that returning the money will implicate him, since they gave him cash to maintain his silence. With Mike's help, Jimmy steals the cash from the Kettlemans and delivers it to the prosecutor handling their case. Betsy threatens to have Jimmy arrested by reporting the bribe he took but he responds that if he is guilty of taking a bribe, she is guilty of offering one. Betsy and Craig reluctantly accept the plea deal Kim negotiated, realizing that having one parent go to prison is a better alternative than depriving their children of both parents.
After Craig's release from prison, the Kettlemans become proprietors of a shady tax preparation service. Kim and Jimmy scheme to ruin Howard Hamlin's reputation as part of their plan to force a resolution of the Sandpiper case so Jimmy can obtain his share of the multimillion dollar judgment or settlement sooner. To that end, Jimmy cons the Kettlemans into believing they have grounds for a lawsuit against Howard. They attempt to hire Cliff Main to represent them by claiming that Howard provided ineffective counsel during Craig's embezzlement case because he supposedly used cocaine. Cliff declines to take the case, but as Jimmy and Kim intended, he begins to wonder if Howard is a drug user. Jimmy subsequently attempts to bribe the Kettlemans to keep quiet about their role in smearing Howard, but when they refuse the cash Kim coerces them by threatening to report their tax preparation scam to the IRS. The Kettlemans are cowed into compliance, but Jimmy disappoints Kim by giving the Kettlemans the money anyway.

Group Leader[edit]
The Group Leader (played by Jere Burns) is a counselor who leads group therapy sessions at Narcotics Anonymous. His actual name is not revealed. He takes a calm, non-judgmental approach to leading discussions and emphasizes that those attending his sessions are there not to improve themselves, but to learn self-acceptance. During an outdoor session at a campfire, he reveals to Jesse and other recovering addicts that in July 1992, while drunk on vodka and high on cocaine, he killed his six-year-old daughter by accidentally running her over with his car. Jesse, still reeling from Jane's death, asks the Group Leader how can he not hate himself for what happened. The Group Leader responds that self-hatred and guilt stand in the way of achieving true change. The Group Leader is seen again in Season 4, when Jesse returns to a session distraught about killing Gale. During the session, Jesse breaks down and yells at the Group Leader, claiming that his philosophy about "accepting yourself" for making mistakes is wrong and people should be judged for the things they have done. Jesse then asks the Group Leader if he just accepts himself for killing his daughter and admits to the whole group that the only reason he comes to these meetings in the first place is to sell meth to them. He asks the Group Leader if he is okay with that, to which the group leader responds, "No." Jesse retorts, "About time", and leaves the session, never to return.

Lawson[edit]
Lawson (played by Jim Beaver) is Walter White and Mike Ehrmantraut's gun dealer. He sold Walt a .38 caliber snub handgun (a Ruger LCR) with the serial number filed off,[102] and previously an M40A1 sniper rifle which Mike intended to use in killing Hector Salamanca. Walt later purchases an M60 machine gun from Lawson, which he uses to kill Jack Welker and his gang.[10]

Clarence[edit]
Clarence, nicknamed "Man Mountain", (played by David Mattey) is an Albuquerque hoodlum who hires himself out for illegal "muscle" work through Dr. Caldera.[103]

Sobchak[edit]
Sobchak (played by Steven Ogg) is a criminal and "off the books" investigator. Pryce considered him, Mike, and Man Mountain as bodyguards when Pryce first met with Nacho. Man Mountain fled after Mike disarmed Sobchak. Kim and Jimmy later hire Sobchak (under his "professional" name Mr. X) to find "dirt" on Kevin Wachtell. He tells them that he could "take him out to the desert" to acquire more information, which causes Kim and Jimmy to ask him to leave.

Donald Margolis[edit]
Donald Margolis (played by John de Lancie) is Jane's father. He owns the building his daughter managed for him. He sent Jane to rehab once before and goes with her to recovery meetings. Donald becomes furious when he discovers that his daughter is back on heroin, suspecting Jesse is at fault (in fact, it is the other way around; she initiated Jesse to heroin, although they are both enabling each other). He nearly calls the police but relents when Jane promises to go back into rehab. Depressed, he goes to a bar and strikes up a conversation with a stranger about the heartache of raising children—that stranger turns out to be Walter White, who has recently been blackmailed by Donald's daughter Jane, although he does not realize the coincidence at the moment. Donald's words inspire Walter to help Jesse get clean from heroin. Walt returns to Jesse's apartment and witnesses Jane choking to death on her vomit while intoxicated on heroin. Heartbroken, Donald is present when the paramedics remove Jane's body and hardly reacts to Jesse's presence. A month later, he returns to work as an air traffic controller while still distraught and causes a mid-air collision of two airplanes just above Albuquerque. The collision kills 167 people—which explains the recurring images in the Season 2 flash-forwards of a burned pink teddy bear floating in Walter's pool. Shortly after the incident, Walter hears via his in-car radio that Margolis is rushed to the hospital after a self-inflicted gunshot wound; however, Walt turns the radio off before Margolis's fate is revealed. Later on, in the episode "Fly", Walter recalls that unlikely sequence of events, telling Jesse about the encounter at the bar (he only realized that this man was Jane's father after he saw him on the news following the disaster), and wonders about the possible meaning of the coincidence.

Carmen Molina[edit]
Carmen Molina (played by Carmen Serano) is the assistant principal at JP Wynne High School, where Walt teaches and which Walt Jr. attends. In Season 3, Walt makes an awkward pass at her (as an attempt at "revenge" for Skyler's infidelity with Ted), resulting in him being placed on an indefinite sabbatical.[104] In Season 5, she has been promoted to principal.[105]

Pamela[edit]
Pamela (played by Julie Dretzin) is a divorce attorney hired by Skyler in the third season. Skyler confides in Pamela that Walter is a drug dealer, and Pamela urges her to contact the police.

Gretchen and Elliott Schwartz[edit]
Gretchen Schwartz (played by Jessica Hecht) is Walt's former college chemistry assistant and now co-owner of Gray Matter, a successful pharmaceutical company. A former romantic interest of Walter's, she is married to Walter's former partner and friend, Elliott Schwartz (played by Adam Godley), who co-created Gray Matter. During their relationship, Gretchen took Walt to visit her parents over a weekend. Soon afterwards, Walt suddenly left all his research and sold his ownership stake in Gray Matter. Gretchen married Elliott, Gray Matter became so successful that their company was worth 2.16 billion dollars by the time of the show,[106] and Gretchen and Elliott became wealthy, leaving Walt bitter about their success.
When Walt begins chemotherapy treatments for his cancer, he conceals the fact that he is paying for it with proceeds from his drug dealing by telling Skyler that Gretchen and Elliott are paying for it. Gretchen finds Walt lied to his family, and is horrified when Walter angrily and bitterly blames her and Elliott for ruining his life. Gretchen promises to maintain the lie for Walt as long as he tells Skyler that the Schwartzes can no longer fund his treatments. Skyler becomes suspicious, contacts Gretchen, and learns that the Schwartzes did not pay any of Walt's medical bills, and deduces that Walter must be getting the money through illegal means.
In the series' final two episodes, "Granite State" and "Felina", Walt is in hiding in New Hampshire and preparing to turn himself in to the DEA. While at a bar, he sees an interview with the Schwartzes on Charlie Rose, who denounce Walt and minimize his involvement in starting Gray Matter. Instead of waiting for the police, Walt steals a car and returns to New Mexico. At Gretchen and Elliott's home, Walt claims to have snipers aiming rifles with laser sights at them, which he uses to coerce them into agreeing to use his remaining money to establish a trust for Walter Jr. while masking the source as a contribution from their charitable foundation. Unknown to the Schwartzes, the snipers are actually Badger and Skinny Pete, who are using laser pointers to simulate rifle sights. The threat causes Gretchen and Elliott to agree to Walt's demand.

Drew Sharp[edit]
Drew Sharp (played by Samuel Webb) is an inquisitive teen living in McKinley County in northwestern New Mexico. In the opening scenes of "Dead Freight", Sharp is on his motorcycle riding around the desert scrub. He finds a tarantula, which he places in a jar; he then hears a train coming down the tracks and sets off to see it, only to encounter Walter White, Jesse Pinkman, and Todd Alquist as they are celebrating their success in stealing the methylamine from the tanker car on the train Kuby helped them stop. Walt, Jesse, and Todd turn off the engine to their pump and discover Sharp and his motorcycle on the other side of the trestle. Sharp waves hello, Todd waves back then pulls out his pistol and kills Sharp in cold blood, to Jesse's dismay.[107]
Sharp's body and motorcycle are hauled back to Vamonos Pest in Albuquerque, where Walter, Mike and Todd dispose of them, once again using hydrofluoric acid, and Todd keeps the tarantula. Later on in that episode, KOB Reporter Antoinette Antonio reports on the disappearance of Sharp and how the search for Sharp has now expanded beyond McKinley County.[46] The killing of Sharp is a critical turning point for Jesse, who ultimately severs his ties with Walter's operation due to his horror and grief at the young boy's death. After Walter belatedly leaves Jesse his share of the buyout money, Jesse seeks Saul Goodman's help to send half of the $5 million to Sharp's family, but is rebuffed as such a move would draw the attention of the authorities.[108] The murder of Sharp is mentioned in the tape Hank and Gomez make of Jesse confessing to his and Walter's criminal history.
In El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, it is revealed that Todd kept Drew's tarantula at his apartment.

Spooge[edit]
Spooge (played by David Ury) is a drug addict who steals meth from Skinny Pete at knifepoint.[37] Jesse later accosts Spooge in Spooge's house and attempts to retrieve the stolen drugs or cash payment. Spooge attempts to repay Jesse by breaking open an ATM he has stolen from a convenience store. While attempting to drill into the machine from the bottom, he begins verbally abusing his wife (played by Dale Dickey), who tips the ATM, crushing Spooge's head and killing him instantly.[109] Jesse's associates and rivals attribute Spooge's death to Jesse, which strengthens his street credibility and reputation for ruthlessness[42] until the wife confesses.[32] Spooge has a young son, whose neglect causes Jesse to realize the negative consequences of the drug business. After Spooge's death, Jesse sits the boy on the front steps of the home, instructs him not to go back inside, having called 911 and leaves the phone line open so police can trace the call, making sure that the boy will be cared for.[109] In Better Call Saul, Spooge is one of the first clients seeking to engage Jimmy McGill as Saul Goodman after word gets out to Albuquerque's criminals about Saul's defense of Lalo Salamanca.

Manuel Varga[edit]
Manuel Varga (portrayed by Juan Carlos Cantu) is Nacho Varga's father and the owner of an upholstery shop.[110][111] Nacho has gone to great lengths to prevent Manuel from learning about his role in the Salamanca drug trade, but as Gus starts to undermine the routes the Salamancas use to smuggle drugs into the U.S., Hector Salamanca considers using Manuel's shop as a front. Nacho is forced to reveal his role in the Salamanca organization to Manuel so Manuel will not put himself at risk by rejecting Hector's offer out of hand. When Nacho is shot as part of Gus's plan to undermine the Salamancas, a reluctant Manuel allows Nacho to recuperate at his house. When Gus forces Nacho to work as his mole, Nacho hides cash and fake Canadian ID cards for himself and his father so they can flee Albuquerque if necessary. When Lalo Salamanca arrives to take over the Salamanca operation, Gus threatens Manuel's life to coerce Nacho into providing inside information. Nacho attempts to protect him by having an associate offer to buy Manuel's shop for more than it is worth so Manuel can retire and move from Albuquerque. Manuel guesses that Nacho is behind the offer and confronts him, saying that if Nacho's drug dealing has made him fearful, he should flee or turn himself into authorities, but that Manuel will not sell and will not leave. After Gus's attempt to kill Lalo he deflects blame by implicating Nacho, and the cartel places a bounty on him. Nacho realizes telling the Salamancas and cartel leaders that Gus had no role in the attack on Lalo is the only way to protect Manuel, but will also result in his own death. He places a farewell call to Manuel, then surrenders to Gus in exchange for Mike's guarantee of Manuel's safety. Mike later informs Manuel of Nacho's death and promises revenge on the Salamancas. Manuel dismisses Mike's promise as a never-ending cycle of bloodshed and tells him he is no different from the criminals with whom he associates.

Kevin Wachtell[edit]
Kevin Wachtell (portrayed by Rex Linn) is the CEO of Mesa Verde Bank.[112] He took over the bank from his father Don in the early 2000s and presides over its expansion into a large regional institution. Kim uses her acquaintanceship with Mesa Verde's counsel Paige to secure Mesa Verde as a client for Hamlin, Hamlin and McGill. When Kim leaves HHM, Kevin agrees that Mesa Verde will be a client of her new practice, but Chuck succeeds at winning them back. Jimmy's sabotage of Chuck's Mesa Verde work causes Kevin to take the bank's business back to Kim. Kim later uses her relationship with Kevin to become a partner at Schweikart & Cokely and lead the firm's new banking division. Kevin's stubborn refusal to accept Kim's advice on handling the eviction of Everett Acker causes Kim to turn the Mesa Verde account over to S&C and leave the firm to concentrate on pro bono criminal defense work she finds more interesting than banking law.

Fred Whalen[edit]
Fred Whalen (portrayed by James Austin Johnson) is an employee of Albuquerque TravelWire, a wire transfer agency. Mike Ehrmantraut questions Fred about Werner Ziegler's whereabouts in "Winner". Fred is initially hesitant, but after Mike claims Werner is his missing brother-in-law and has early-stage dementia and diabetes, Fred reveals that Werner made phone calls at TravelWire and left using a car service. Fred also lets Mike review CCTV footage in hopes of learning Werner's destination.
Lalo Salamanca later visits TravelWire and asks similar questions about Werner. Fred becomes suspicious and declines to cooperate. After Fred suggests that Lalo call the police, TravelWire gets a call. When Fred finishes the call, he sees that Lalo is no longer in the store's lobby. Just as Fred notices a loose ceiling panel inside his locked booth, Lalo drops in and trains a gun on him. Lalo examines the footage, murders Fred, and burns down the TravelWire to destroy the evidence.
In "Wexler v. Goodman", Mike works under an assumed name to persuade a witness who was outside TravelWire to identify Lalo's car to the Albuquerque police and Lalo is arrested under an alias. A police report reveals that Lalo had bludgeoned Fred to death, resulting in a skull fracture. In "JMM", Gus wants Lalo released, so he has Mike provide Saul details of the actions that led to Lalo's arrest. Fred's family attends the bail hearing, at which Saul accuses the police of witness tampering, evidence that results in the judge granting bail.

Holly White[edit]
Holly White (played by Haven Tomlin in Season 4, Elanor Anne Wenrich in the first half of Season 5, and Moira Bryg MacDonald in the latter half) is Skyler and Walt's infant daughter and Walt Jr.'s younger sister. Walt is not present for his daughter's birth because he is preoccupied with drug-related business, and he blames Jesse for making him miss the birth. Ted Beneke, Skyler's boss, takes Skyler to the hospital when she goes into labor. Skyler brings the baby on her trip to the Four Corners Monument. Holly is seen learning to walk in Season 5. Holly and her brother spend three months in the home of their Aunt Marie and Uncle Hank while their parents work to determine the state of their marriage. After her Uncle Hank's unexpected death, which causes a nasty fight between Walter and Skyler, Walter kidnaps Holly to "punish" Skyler for attempting to stab him, but later has second thoughts and leaves her at a fire station. She is later returned safely to Skyler. Holly's last appearance occurs in "Felina" where Walter, via a request that is granted by Skyler, holds and embraces her for a moment before he leaves.

Bogdan Wolynetz[edit]
Bogdan Wolynetz (played by Marius Stan) is the owner and proprietor of the car wash at which Walt is employed at the beginning of Breaking Bad. He is abrasive and rude to Walter, who finds this job degrading and tedious. After Walt is diagnosed with lung cancer in the pilot episode, he angrily lashes out at Bogdan and quits.
Bogdan reappears in the third season, when Walt and Skyler are trying to purchase the car wash in order to launder Walt's drug money. When Skyler is trying to negotiate the purchase, Bogdan brings up Walt's angry outburst and states that, if Walt wants to purchase the establishment it will cost him $20 million. When Saul suggests that Walt and Skyler could accuse Bogdan of harboring Islamist terrorists in order to force him to sell the car wash, Walt exasperatedly reveals that Bogdan is, in fact, Romanian. Eventually, Walt and Skyler are able to purchase it for $800,000 after Skyler hires Kuby to perform a fake environmental audit on the car wash.
When Bogdan hands the keys to the building over to Walter, he taunts Walter by implying that he needs his "woman" to do things for him. Walter, having been riled up by Bogdan, refuses to let him leave with his first American business dollar which had been framed and mounted in his shop. Subsequently, Walter spends that dollar in the vending machine to buy a can of soda.

Daniel Wormald[edit]
Daniel Wormald (played by Mark Proksch), who uses the alias "Pryce", is a quirky, nerdy and naive man who works for a pharmaceutical company. To earn extra money, he steals some of his company's pills to sell to Nacho and hires Mike to provide security. Knowing that Nacho is going behind the cartel's back and wants to avoid attention, Mike assures that he abides by the terms of the deal. Daniel uses the money to buy a flashy Hummer and when he arranges another deal, Mike refuses to be a part of it. Daniel still meets Nacho, but without Mike to protect him, Nacho obtains Daniel's address. Nacho later breaks into Daniel's home to steal Daniel's cash, pill stash, and a collection of baseball cards. Daniel calls police to report the stolen cards but his awkward behavior leads the cops to find the hiding place where he kept the cash and pills. To keep Daniel from talking, Mike brokers a deal that has Nacho exchange cash and the baseball cards for Daniel's Hummer. Mike also arranges for Jimmy to represent Daniel during an interview with police, in which Jimmy allays their suspicions by claiming Daniel has a fetish for "pie sitting" and kept videos of the act in his hiding place.
Nacho breaks into Daniel's home again, this time offering Daniel $20,000 if he can procure empty capsules that look like Hector's angina medication. Daniel approaches Mike for help and Mike declines. Mike changes his mind after comparing the risk an unprotected Daniel will face to the risk Mike created for his daughter-in-law and granddaughter by his recent actions against the Salamancas. Mike delivers the empty capsules to Nacho, who explains his plan to switch Hector's nitroglycerin for a placebo. Mike warns Nacho that if Hector dies, Nacho should immediately take the fakes from Hector and replace them with the real medication so that the cause of Hector's death will not be obvious.
According to the Better Call Saul insider podcast, the "Danny" referenced by Jimmy on his call to Francesca is intended to be Daniel, meaning Daniel owns the laser tag arena/arcade through which Jimmy tells Walt and Jesse to launder their money.

Werner Ziegler[edit]
Werner Ziegler (played by Rainer Bock) is a German construction engineer hired by Gustavo Fring to build his underground methamphetamine laboratory. After vetting by Mike Ehrmantraut, Gus chooses Werner over an overly confident French engineer because of Werner's frank explanation of the difficulties involved in the construction. When it becomes clear the job will take longer than anticipated and tempers flare among Werner's crew, Mike arranges an "R&R" outing to a strip club. Mike and Werner retire to a quiet bar for a personal conversation, but Mike has to return to the strip club to smooth over an altercation, and during his absence Werner drunkenly reveals construction details to other patrons at the bar. Werner later requests a weekend off to visit with his wife, which Mike denies. Werner then escapes by bypassing the security system where his crew and he are quartered. According to the note he left behind, he plans to visit with his wife and then return to finish the work. Mike tracks Werner down at a local spa, but so does Lalo Salamanca, to whom Werner mistakenly reveals construction details before Mike ends the call. Mike asks Gus to let Werner return to work, but Gus understands that through Werner, Lalo could learn the secret of the meth lab's construction, so he says he will send men to kill Werner. Mike says he will do it himself and convinces Werner to contact his wife at the airport and send her home. He promises that Werner's death will have an explanation that satisfies the authorities, so that his wife will not wonder what happened to him, and to return Werner's crew to Germany unharmed. Werner tells Mike he wants to take a last walk to look at the stars, and Mike follows and shoots him in the head.

Casper[edit]
Casper (portrayed by Stefan Kapičić) is a member of Werner Ziegler's construction crew.[113] When Gus hires Werner to supervise construction of a meth lab under Gus's industrial laundry, Werner employs Casper and several other laborers.[114] After Werner escapes the crew's living quarters inside an Albuquerque warehouse, which leads to his death at Mike's hands, Gus pays the construction crew and returns them to Germany.[114] As Mike pays the crew and gives them their plane tickets, Casper confronts him and says that Werner "was worth 50 of you."[114] Werner's widow Margarethe believes Werner died in a cave in, during which he saved his crew.[115] The crew, whom Werner called "my boys" did not attend his funeral, but sent a Lucite sculpture which contained Werner's slide rule and an inscription indicating the gift was from "Your Boys".[115] Under an alias, Lalo converses with Margarethe and learns of the "my boys" expression.[115] When he breaks into Margarethe's house the next day, he finds the sculpture, which contains a manufacturer's label.[113] This clue leads Lalo to Casper, and he soon arrives at Casper's remote home.[113] In the ensuing confrontation, Casper strikes Lalo with the blunt side of an axe, but Lalo slashes Casper's face with a hidden razor blade, then uses the axe to sever his foot.[113] Lalo gives Casper his belt for use as a tourniquet, then interrogates him about his work with Werner.[113]

Mrs. Nguyen[edit]
Mrs. Nguyen (portrayed by Eileen Fogarty) is the owner of Day Spa and Nail, the nail salon in which Jimmy McGill's back room office is located.[116] She frequently chides Jimmy for drinking the cucumber water infusion she makes available to salon customers and employees and objects to Jimmy's clients waiting in the area where she provides services to hers.[116] When Jimmy is hired by Davis & Main, his company car is delivered to Day Spa and Nail, and Mrs. Nguyen's awestruck staff huddle around the new Mercedes sedan.[117] Before he departs, he jokingly asks if Mrs. Nguyen is going to give him a goodbye hug and she shakes her head no before walking back inside.[117] Jimmy finds himself unable to sleep in his new apartment, so he returns to the salon.[118] Mrs. Nguyen discovers him the next morning, and when she refuses him a cup of coffee, he tells her that the sooner she gives him the coffee, the sooner he will leave.[118]
During the suspension of his law license, Jimmy starts a business reselling prepaid cellular phones.[119] Mrs. Nguyen objects to him storing the phones at the salon, but Jimmy says that because he pays rent, he can do what he wants with the space.[119] He appeases her by offering her a phone, which she accepts, but she also warns him that get rich quick schemes are usually unsuccessful.[119] After Jimmy's first bar association hearing, when he discovers his suspension will be continued and argues with Kim, Mrs. Nguyen discovers him crying in his office.[120] She assumes Kim and Jimmy are married, shares a drink with him, and offers him relationship advice.[120] After Jimmy begins practicing law as Saul Goodman, and word of his representation of the Salamancas gets out, his office is flooded with potential criminal defense clients, causing an obviously annoyed Mrs. Nguyen to evict him.[121]

David Brightbill[edit]
David Brightbill (portrayed by Jackamoe Buzzell) is a private investigator. After Jimmy sabotages Chuck's work for Mesa Verde Bank, Chuck hires David to find proof. When Chuck records Jimmy's confession and arranges for Jimmy to find out, David and Howard Hamlin spend time at Chuck's house because Chuck is sure Jimmy will try to steal the recording and wants them to observe firsthand. Jimmy later angrily breaks down Chuck's door and destroys the cassette, and David and Howard reveal themselves as witnesses, which enables Chuck to report Jimmy's crime to the police.

Lyle[edit]
Lyle (portrayed by Harrison Thomas) is the assistant manager of the Los Pollos Hermanos restaurant chain's Albuquerque store. He is loyal to Gus and takes great pride in his work, but is oblivious to Gus's role in the illegal drug trade. Lyle is temporarily promoted to store manager while Gus recovers after he is wounded in the shootout with Lalo and tells Lyle he is unable to come into work due to a family emergency.

Margarethe Ziegler[edit]
Margarethe Ziegler (portrayed by Andrea Sooch) is the widow of Werner Ziegler.[122] When Werner was constructing the meth lab for Gus Fring, he escaped to rendezvous with Margarethe, and she planned to visit him in New Mexico.[122] After Werner inadvertently revealed construction details to Lalo, Gus realized that Lalo could learn the whole plan and report him to cartel leaders, so he ordered Werner's death.[122] Because Werner escaped on his watch, Mike took responsibility.[122] After promising Werner his crew would be returned to Germany unharmed and that there would be a story about his death that satisfied his wife, Mike had Werner call his wife at the airport and convince her to return to Germany.[123] Mike then shot Werner, and his death was made to look like the result of a construction accident.[122]
Lalo later uses an alias to converse with Margarethe at a bar in Germany and finds that she believes Werner died in a cave in, but saved his crew.[122] The next day, Lalo watches Margarethe leave for work, then breaks into her home.[122] Using a clue she provided in their conversation the night before, Lalo finds another lead that will enable him to find Werner's crew.[122] Margarethe unexpectedly returns home to retrieve her cell phone, and her dog barks at something upstairs.[124] Margarethe ascends the stairs to search, and Lalo prepares to kill her, but he escapes through a window without being noticed.[124]

Everett Acker[edit]
Everett Acker (portrayed by Barry Corbin) is a retiree whose home is on land leased from Mesa Verde Bank. Kim Wexler represents the bank in its attempt to evict Acker so it can construct a new call center. When Kim becomes sympathetic to Acker's refusal to leave, she persuades Jimmy (as Saul Goodman) to represent him.
As of 2004, Acker has lived at the same location since 1974. When Mesa Verde Bank begins buying out leases in order to construct a call center as part of its regional expansion, Acker becomes the last holdout. Though his lease includes a provision for the bank to buy him out at fair market value plus $5,000, he considers the buyout provision to be unfair, even with Mesa Verde's $18,000 bonus offer. Kim recommends to Kevin and Paige an alternate building site that will enable Mesa Verde to work around Acker's refusal to leave, but they insist on eviction. She asks Jimmy (as Saul) to represent Acker against Mesa Verde, and Acker agrees. Jimmy creates delays in Mesa Verde's eviction through several tricks, including changing Acker's street number and claiming the eviction notices are for the wrong address, creating fake Native American artifacts to be found by researchers, planting low-level radioactive material to have authorities test the site for hazardous waste, and passing off a spray-painted image of Jesus on Acker's home as a miracle that causes the religious faithful to consider it a shrine. Kim and Jimmy consider blackmailing Kevin into settling, but Kim changes her mind and offers an improved settlement, with her personally making up the difference between what Kevin agrees to pay and a $75,000 total. Jimmy says Acker already agreed to accept $45,000, so he concurs. Jimmy meets with Kim, Rich, Kevin, and Paige to complete the arrangement and stuns everyone by demanding $4 million. When Kevin ridicules this demand, Jimmy shows him rough cuts of commercials seeking plaintiffs for class-action lawsuits against Mesa Verde, which unfavorably depict Kevin's father, Don Wachtell. Jimmy also makes use of the blackmail material Kim declined to employ— photos that prove Mesa Verde's logo is based on an original photograph the bank did not obtain permission to use. Jimmy uses the threat of lawsuits and an injunction against displaying the logo to persuade Kevin to accept a settlement that includes $75,000 in cash for Acker and permission to remain in his home.

Marion[edit]
Marion (portrayed by Carol Burnett) is Jeff's elderly mother, whom Jimmy (as Gene) befriends as a ploy to gain the upper hand on Jeff. Gene puts on a kind and affable persona and lies about owning a missing dog. In addition, he claims to have never visited Albuquerque, where Marion says Jeff faced legal troubles. After Gene, Jeff and Jeff's friend Buddy secretly work together to rob a department store at the mall where Gene works, Jeff uses some of his money to buy Marion a laptop; Gene teaches her how to search on a web browser. While watching videos one night, Marion overhears Gene berating Buddy because Buddy has backed out of Gene's latest scam. Gene refuses to give up on robbing the mark, so he has Jeff drive him to the mark's home. Jeff panics when he sees a police car idle behind him and crashes his taxi, leading to his arrest. Gene asks Marion to accompany him when delivering Jeff's bail. Gene's knowledge of the legal process arouses Marion's suspicions, and she uses her computer to discover Gene's identity as Saul Goodman. Gene attempts to intimidate her into staying silent, but she uses her Life Alert button to call the authorities, forcing Gene to flee. As he runs, Marion provides the operator information on Gene's movements that aids police in locating and arresting him.

Neil Kandy[edit]
Neil Kandy (portrayed by Scott MacArthur) is the owner of an Albuquerque welding shop. In El Camino Neil and Casey pretend to be police officers so they can enter the now-dead Todd's apartment to search for his hidden cash. They encounter Jesse, who was already there searching and prevents them from killing him by revealing that he found the money. Neil and Jesse bargain over the cash, and in order to avoid raising the suspicions of Todd's neighbors Neil agrees to let Jesse leave with a third. As they depart Todd's apartment building, Jesse recognizes Neil as the welder who built the tether that held him while he was forced to cook meth for the Brotherhood.
When Jesse realizes he does not have enough to pay for Ed Galbraith's new identity services, he secretly retrieves two pistols from his parents' house, a Colt Woodsman and an Iver Johnson Hammerless. He then drives to Neil's shop, where Neil, Casey, and three friends celebrate with escorts and cocaine. After the escorts leave, Jesse asks for the $1,800 he needs, and Neil refuses. Seeing the Woodsman in Jesse's waistband, Neil challenges Jesse to a duel for his share of the cash. Jesse agrees, and when Neil reaches for his gun, Jesse shoots Neil with the Hammerless, which was concealed in his jacket pocket. After killing Casey, Jesse collects the driver's licenses of the remaining men and lets them leave after threatening to return and kill them if they tell the police. He recovers Neil's cash and departs after setting an explosion to cover his tracks.

Casey[edit]
Casey (portrayed by Scott Shepherd) is an employee at Neil Kandy's welding shop. In El Camino, after Casey and Neil confront Jesse during the search for the now-dead Todd's hidden cash, Jesse saves himself from being killed by revealing that he found it. Casey then distracts Todd's busybody neighbor Lou, which enables Jesse and Neil to bargain. To avoid alarming Todd's neighbors, Neil agrees to let Jesse leave with a third. When Jesse later arrives at Neil's shop to ask for the $1,800 he needs to pay Ed Galbraith for a new identity and relocation, Casey is incensed to learn that Neil allowed Jesse to keep a third of the money and demands that he not give Jesse any more. Neil challenges Jesse to a duel for his share of the cash, during which Jesse kills Neil. Casey then fires at Jesse, but Jesse kills him with Neil's gun.

Lou Schanzer[edit]
Lou Schanzer (portrayed by Tom Bower) is a retired police officer and Todd Alquist's busybody neighbor. In El Camino, he observed Neil Kandy and Casey arrive at Todd's apartment to search for Todd's hidden money, though Neil and Casey had planned their arrival for a time when they thought he would not be home. Believing Neil and Casey to be police officers, he offers information about Todd's activities. After he leaves, Neil and Casey confront Jesse. Lou then arrives with an old note from Todd, which he believes will help Neil and Casey in their investigation. Casey pretends to be interested to divert Lou's attention, which enables Jesse and Neil to negotiate over the division of the cash, then leave Todd's apartment building.

References[edit]


^ Gualtieri, Tom (August 10, 2013). "Walter White vs. Macbeth". Salon. Archived from the original on December 26, 2014. Retrieved August 19, 2013.

^ Gary Strauss (February 21, 2008). "For teen star of 'Breaking Bad,' real-life disability is no obstacle". USA Today. Archived from the original on October 17, 2019. Retrieved August 19, 2013.

^ Nussbaum, Emily (July 24, 2011). "My 'Breaking Bad' Bender and the cold hard truths of the morning after". New York magazine. Archived from the original on September 14, 2013. Retrieved September 8, 2012.

^ "Todd Alquist". AMC. Archived from the original on May 4, 2015. Retrieved November 20, 2013.

^ "Best TV Villain – IGN's Best of 2013". IGN. Archived from the original on January 11, 2014. Retrieved January 13, 2014.

^ Li, Shirley (September 17, 2013). "Forget Gus: Todd is the most dangerous villain on 'Breaking Bad'". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved October 5, 2013.

^ Bowman, Donna (April 26, 2009). "Breaking Bad: "Better Call Saul"". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on March 3, 2020. Retrieved March 3, 2020.

^ a b Vince Gilligan (dir), Thomas Schnauz, Moira Walley-Beckett (wrt) (October 2, 2011). "End Times". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 12. AMC.

^ a b c d e Vince Gilligan (dir, wrt) (October 9, 2011). "Face Off". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 13. AMC.

^ a b c Michael Slovis (dir), Vince Gilligan (wrt) (July 15, 2012). "Live Free or Die". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 1. AMC.

^ Sam Catlin (dir, wrt) (September 1, 2013). "Rabid Dog". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 12. AMC.

^ a b Michelle MacLaren (dir), George Mastras (wrt) (September 8, 2013). "To'hajiilee". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 13. AMC.

^ a b Rian Johnson (dir), Moira Walley-Beckett (wrt) (September 15, 2013). "Ozymandias". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 14. AMC.

^ Schilling, Mary Kaye (August 11, 2013). "Dean Norris on the Breaking Bad Premiere, Hank's Machismo, and Bryan Cranston's Overachiever E-mails". Vulture. Archived from the original on June 14, 2018. Retrieved August 22, 2013.

^ a b c Michelle MacLaren (dir), Thomas Schnauz (wrt) (August 18, 2013). "Buried". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 10. AMC.

^ a b c Michelle MacLaren (dir), Thomas Schnauz (wrt) (May 2, 2010). "One Minute". Breaking Bad. Season 3. Episode 7. AMC.

^ a b c Michelle MacLaren (dir), Vince Gilligan (wrt) (July 22, 2012). "Madrigal". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 2. AMC.

^ a b Rian Johnson (dir), Sam Catlin (wrt) (August 5, 2012). "Fifty-One". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 4. AMC.

^ a b Charles Haid (dir), George Mastras (wrt) (March 15, 2009). "Grilled". Breaking Bad. Season 2. Episode 2. AMC.

^ David Slade (dir), Sam Catlin (wrt) (July 31, 2011). "Open House". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 3. AMC.

^ Michelle MacLaren (dir), Thomas Schnauz (wrt) (August 14, 2011). "Shotgun". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 5. AMC.

^ a b c d Johan Renck (dir), Sam Catlin, George Mastras (wrt) (September 4, 2011). "Hermanos". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 8. AMC.

^ "Better Call Saul confirms Gus Fring is gay following new scenes". JOE.co.uk. July 21, 2022. Archived from the original on July 21, 2022. Retrieved July 22, 2022.

^ a b c Adam Bernstein (dir), Vince Gilligan (wrt) (July 17, 2011). "Box Cutter". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 1. AMC.

^ a b John Shiban (dir, wrt) (April 25, 2010). "Sunset". Breaking Bad. Season 3. Episode 6. AMC.

^ a b Colin Bucksey (dir), Gennifer Hutchison (wrt) (May 9, 2010). "I See You". Breaking Bad. Season 3. Episode 8. AMC.

^ a b c Vince Gilligan (dir, wrt) (June 13, 2010). "Full Measure". Breaking Bad. Season 3. Episode 13. AMC.

^ Colin Bucksey (dir), Moira Walley-Beckett (wrt) (August 7, 2011). "Bullet Points". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 4. AMC.

^ a b c d Michelle MacLaren (dir), Moira Walley-Beckett (wrt) (September 2, 2012). "Gliding Over All". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 8. AMC.

^ a b Scott Winant (dir), Sam Catlin, George Mastras (wrt) (September 25, 2011). "Crawl Space". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 11. AMC.

^ a b c "Hazard Pay". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 3. July 29, 2012. AMC.

^ a b "Mandala". Breaking Bad. Season 2. Episode 11. May 17, 2009. AMC.

^ a b Thomas Schnauz (dir, wrt) (August 26, 2012). "Say My Name". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 7. AMC.

^ a b Michelle MacLaren (dir), Peter Gould, Gennifer Hutchison (wrt) (September 19, 2011). "Salud". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 10. AMC.

^ a b c d Michelle MacLaren (dir), George Mastras (wrt) (April 4, 2010). "I.F.T.". Breaking Bad. Season 3. Episode 3. AMC.

^ Stone, Alice (July 26, 2020). "'Breaking Bad' Has a Secret Nod to 'The Sopranos' That Fans Missed". Showbiz Cheat Sheet. Archived from the original on April 22, 2022. Retrieved April 20, 2022.

^ a b Johan Renck (dir), Moira Walley-Beckett (wrt) (April 5, 2009). "Breakage". Breaking Bad. Season 2. Episode 5. AMC.

^ a b "No Más". Breaking Bad. Season 3. Episode 1. March 21, 2010. AMC.

^ "Caballo sin Nombre". Breaking Bad. Season 3. Episode 2. March 28, 2010. AMC.

^ Bryan Cranston (dir), J. Roberts (wrt) (March 8, 2009). "Seven Thirty-Seven". Breaking Bad. Season 2. Episode 1. AMC.

^ Tim Hunter (dir), Peter Gould (March 8, 2008). "A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal". Breaking Bad. Season 1. Episode 7. AMC.

^ a b Felix Alcala (dir), John Shiban (wrt) (April 19, 2009). "Negro y Azul". Breaking Bad. Season 2. Episode 7. AMC.

^ a b c McCormick, Colin (June 9, 2021). "Better Call Saul: 10 Times Someone Was Killed In Broad Daylight". Screen Rant. Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada: Valnet, Inc. Archived from the original on June 3, 2022. Retrieved June 3, 2022.

^ a b Potts, Kimberly (April 5, 2016). "'Better Call Saul' Recap: Ice Cream, Garden Hoses, and a Man Named Fudge". Yahoo Entertainment. New York, NY: Verizon Media. Archived from the original on June 3, 2022. Retrieved June 3, 2022.

^ a b c d e f Eyerly, Alan (April 19, 2016). "'Better Call Saul' recap: Brotherly love could prove Jimmy's undoing". Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles, CA. Archived from the original on June 3, 2022. Retrieved June 3, 2022.

^ a b Colin Bucksey (dir), Gennifer Hutchison (wrt) (August 19, 2012). "Buyout". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 6. AMC.

^ a b Vince Gilligan (director, writer) (January 20, 2008). "Pilot". Breaking Bad. Season 1. Episode 1. AMC.

^ a b Adam Bernstein (dir), Vince Gilligan (wrt) (January 27, 2008). "Cat's in the Bag...". Breaking Bad. Season 1. Episode 2. AMC.

^ "Krazy-8's Breaking Bad Backstory (As Revealed in Better Call Saul)". Screen Rant. September 15, 2019. Archived from the original on March 11, 2020. Retrieved March 11, 2020.

^ "...And the Bag's in the River". Breaking Bad. Season 1. Episode 3. February 10, 2008. AMC.

^ "Better Call Saul Reveals Silly Way Breaking Bad's Krazy-8 Got His Name". ScreenRant. February 26, 2020. Archived from the original on March 4, 2020. Retrieved April 3, 2020.

^ "All The Breaking Bad Characters That Appeared in El Camino". CinemaBlend. October 11, 2019. Archived from the original on May 11, 2021. Retrieved May 11, 2021.

^ Gilligan, Vince. "Breaking Bad Q&A: Vince Gilligan". Breaking Bad at the Film Society of Lincoln Center. Film Society of Lincoln Center: YouTube. Archived from the original on December 20, 2021. Retrieved August 28, 2013.

^ 'Breaking Bad' Star Charles Baker on Working With Bryan Cranston on YouTube

^ Sepinwall, Alan (October 12, 2019). "'El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie' Recap: Jesse Pinkman Is Born Again". Rolling Stone. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Eger, Chris (October 14, 2019). "Jesse Pinkman is Back: The Curious Guns of El Camino". Guns.com. Burnsville, MN. Archived from the original on April 15, 2020. Retrieved October 30, 2019.

^ Segal, David (April 17, 2017). "'Better Call Saul' Season 3, Episode 2: Playing Chicken". The New York Times. Archived from the original on November 11, 2020. Retrieved April 5, 2020.

^ "Breaking Down 'Saul': Season 3, Episode 3, "Sunk Costs"". Decider. April 25, 2017. Archived from the original on June 20, 2021. Retrieved April 5, 2020.

^ Breaking Bad Roundtable (August 25, 2013). "Breaking Bad: Was Jesse's Big Epiphany Believable? And has Walt always been Heisenberg? Our roundtable discusses "Confessions", the third episode in the AMC show's final half-season". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on December 22, 2017. Retrieved March 8, 2017.

^ Gallagher, Caitlin (October 10, 2019). "The 'El Camino' Cast Is Full Of Your 'Breaking Bad' Faves". Bustle. Archived from the original on October 12, 2019. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Singh, Olivia (October 11, 2019). "12 'Breaking Bad' stars who returned for Netflix's sequel movie 'El Camino'". Insider. Archived from the original on July 14, 2023. Retrieved October 16, 2019.

^ Dibdin, Emma (October 14, 2019). "Ed the Vacuum Repair Man Is Quietly the Most Important 'Breaking Bad' Cameo in 'El Camino'". Esquire. Archived from the original on August 27, 2020. Retrieved June 6, 2020.

^ "'Better Call Saul' Opening Scene Explained". The Hollywood Reporter. February 8, 2015. Archived from the original on February 26, 2015. Retrieved February 23, 2015.

^ "BEST QUALITY VACUUM". Fictional Corporations. Archived from the original on January 20, 2021. Retrieved December 11, 2020.

^ Hoare, Peter. "Bill Burr Interview". AskMen. Archived from the original on December 26, 2014. Retrieved May 4, 2014.

^ a b "Josh Fadem: Creator of A Whole New Set of Problems". Starburns Industries Press. Burbank, CA: Starburns Industries. Archived from the original on May 11, 2021. Retrieved May 11, 2021.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (September 24, 2018). "'Better Call Saul' Recap: Let's Do It Again". Rolling Stone. New York, NY: Penske Media Corporation.

^ St. Cyr, Peter (February 15, 2016). "Shifty Lawyers Aren't Just for Albuquerque: 'Better Call Saul' gets local". Santa Fe Reporter. Santa Fe, NM. Archived from the original on May 12, 2021. Retrieved May 11, 2021.

^ 2Paragraphs (May 15, 2017). "Who Is Make-Up Girl on 'Better Call Saul'?". 2 Paragraphs.com. 2paragraphs Productions, LLC. Archived from the original on May 11, 2021. Retrieved May 11, 2021.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)

^ Lever, Kevin (March 24, 2020). "Better Call Saul Review: Wexler v. Goodman (Season 5 Episode 6)". Tell Tale TV.com. Bissette Media, LLC. Archived from the original on May 11, 2021. Retrieved May 11, 2021.

^ a b Gould, Peter; Schnauz, Thomas (May 8, 2018). "Script: Better Call Saul, "Winner", Episode #410" (PDF). Story Factory UK. Culver City, CA: Sony Pictures Television. pp. 25–26. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 19, 2022. Retrieved May 31, 2022.

^ a b Sciarabba, Ali (May 28, 2022). "Better Call Saul S6E7: "Plan and Execution" Is Both Shocking and Inevitable". TV Obsessive. 25YearsLater. Archived from the original on May 29, 2022. Retrieved May 31, 2022.

^ Larysa Kondracki (dir), Thomas Schnauz (wrt) (April 4, 2016). "Fifi". Better Call Saul. Season 2. Episode 8. AMC.

^ Peter Gould (dir, wrt) (April 11, 2016). "Nailed". Better Call Saul. Season 2. Episode 9. AMC.

^ Nemetz, Dave (July 6, 2022). "Better Call Saul Recasts Key Role Ahead of Final Episodes, New Teaser Reveals". TVLine. Archived from the original on July 7, 2022. Retrieved July 18, 2022.

^ Segal, David (March 14, 2016). "'Better Call Saul' Season 2, Episode 5: Do Not Attend Law School". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on August 10, 2020. Retrieved August 7, 2020.

^ Sciarabba, Ali (March 22, 2016). "Better Call Saul Recap: Episode 2×05 ("Rebecca")". The Game of Nerds. San Martin, CA. Archived from the original on January 21, 2022. Retrieved April 26, 2022.

^ Nemetz, Dave (April 24, 2017). "Better Call Saul Recap: Family Court". TV Line. Los Angeles, CA. Archived from the original on April 26, 2022. Retrieved April 26, 2022.

^ Rosenfield, Kat (February 23, 2020). "Better Call Saul premiere recap: Say it, and do the point". Entertainment Weekly. New York, NY.

^ MacInnes, Paul (May 3, 2022). "Better Call Saul recap: season six, episode four – Kim knows the terrifying truth". The Guardian. London, UK. Archived from the original on May 13, 2022. Retrieved May 13, 2022.

^ Guide, T. V. "Jimmy Goes Gangster as Better Call Saul Takes a Breather". Telegram & Gazette. Archived from the original on March 24, 2020. Retrieved March 24, 2020.

^ "Better Call Saul: There's One Big Problem With Jimmy & Kim's Latest Con". Screen Rant. March 11, 2020. Archived from the original on March 24, 2020. Retrieved March 24, 2020.

^ "Better Call Saul: Why Erin Brill Fell Out With Jimmy". Screen Rant. March 8, 2020. Archived from the original on March 9, 2020. Retrieved April 27, 2020.

^ Franich, Darren (October 1, 2018). "Why I love Kim Wexler on 'Better Call Saul'". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved August 7, 2020.

^ Eyerly, Alan (April 12, 2016). "'Better Call Saul' recap: Threaten Mike's family? Not a good idea". The Baltimore Sun. Archived from the original on April 22, 2022. Retrieved August 7, 2020.

^ Nemetz, Dave (September 24, 2018). "Better Call Saul Recap: Yes We Scam". TVLine. Los Angeles, CA. Archived from the original on April 26, 2022. Retrieved April 26, 2022.

^ Segal, David (February 24, 2020). "'Better Call Saul' Season 5, Episode 2 Recap: Down the Drain". The New York Times. New York, NY. Archived from the original on April 26, 2022. Retrieved April 26, 2022.

^ Segal, David (April 25, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Season 6, Episode 3 Recap: Viva Nacho". The New York Times. New York, NY. Archived from the original on April 28, 2022. Retrieved April 26, 2022.

^ Hunt, James (October 11, 2019). "El Camino: Every Breaking Bad Character In The Movie". Screen Rant. Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada. Archived from the original on May 16, 2022. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ a b c Sciarabba, Ali (September 5, 2018). "Better Call Saul: "Quite a Ride" (S4E5)". TV Obsessive. 25YearsLater. Archived from the original on October 19, 2022. Retrieved May 14, 2022.

^ a b "Something Stupid Transcript". Better Call Saul Season 4, Episode 7. TV Show Transcripts. September 17, 2018. Retrieved May 14, 2022.

^ a b c "Wexler v. Goodman Transcript". Better Call Saul Season 5, Episode 6. TV Show Transcripts. March 24, 2020. Retrieved May 14, 2022.

^ a b c Davids, Brian (May 10, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Executive Producer Melissa Bernstein Discusses Kim's "Dark Side" and Breaks Down Goodman-Hamlin Title Fight". The Hollywood Reporter. Los Angeles, CA. Archived from the original on May 11, 2022. Retrieved May 14, 2022.

^ a b c d e f g h i j "Breaking Bad Wiki Guide: Ted Beneke". IGN. San Francisco, CA. July 18, 2012. Archived from the original on November 9, 2019. Retrieved November 9, 2019.

^ "Character Biography: Ted Beneke". Breaking Bad Cast and Crew. New York, NY: AMC.com. Archived from the original on August 25, 2019. Retrieved November 9, 2019.

^ "Better Call Saul Recap: Say Uncle". Vulture. March 14, 2016. Archived from the original on October 25, 2020. Retrieved July 31, 2020.

^ a b c Caputo, Mike (August 20, 2018). "TV Recap: Better Call Saul – Shitting Gold". Pop Culture Review. Archived from the original on April 22, 2022. Retrieved September 30, 2020.

^ a b "Transcripts: Better Call Saul; Amarillo". Better Call Saul Transcripts. Forever Dreaming. March 1, 2016. Archived from the original on March 8, 2022. Retrieved September 30, 2020.

^ "Breaking Bad: What's in Jesse Pinkman's Mysterious Letter in El Camino?". CBR. October 13, 2019. Archived from the original on October 22, 2019. Retrieved March 2, 2020.

^ "'I didn't watch Breaking Bad': says Irish actress Kerry Condon starring in spin-off Better Call Saul". The Independent. April 28, 2015. Archived from the original on February 29, 2020. Retrieved February 29, 2020.

^ Sacks, Ethan (March 17, 2015). "'Better Call Saul' Season 1, Episode 7 Recap: Jimmy can't win in 'Bingo'". New York Daily News. New York, NY. Archived from the original on May 27, 2022. Retrieved May 27, 2022.

^ Michelle MacLaren (dir), George Mastras (wrt) (July 24, 2011). "Thirty-Eight Snub". Breaking Bad. Season 4. Episode 2. AMC.

^ Snyder, Chris; Geaghan-Breiner, Meredith (October 15, 2019). "31 details you may have missed in the 'Breaking Bad' movie, 'El Camino'". Insider. New York, NY: Insider Inc. Archived from the original on July 14, 2023. Retrieved May 10, 2021.

^ Scott Winant (dir), Sam Catlin (wrt) (April 11, 2010). "Green Light". Breaking Bad. Season 3. Episode 4. AMC.

^ Peter Gould (dir, wrt) (September 22, 2013). "Granite State". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 15. AMC.

^ Episode "Buyout" - Breaking Bad | Netflix

^ George Mastras (dir, wrt) (August 12, 2012). "Dead Freight". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 5. AMC.

^ Bryan Cranston (dir), Peter Gould (wrt) (August 11, 2013). "Blood Money". Breaking Bad. Season 5. Episode 9. AMC.

^ a b Peter Medak (dir), Vince Gilligan, J. Roberts (wrt) (April 12, 2009). "Peekaboo". Breaking Bad. Season 2. Episode 6. AMC.

^ Topel, Fred (March 9, 2020). "'Better Call Saul': Michael Mando Was Supposed to be Season 1's Big Bad. Here's Why They Changed That". Showbiz Cheat Sheet. Archived from the original on March 25, 2020. Retrieved March 25, 2020.

^ Friedlander, Whitney (February 21, 2020). "Better Call Saul Stars Say Season 5 Is the One Breaking Bad Fans Have Been Waiting For". Rotten Tomatoes. Fandango. Archived from the original on March 17, 2020. Retrieved March 25, 2020.

^ "Better Call Saul Theory: Kim Saw [SPOILER] In The Photo". Screen Rant. March 17, 2020. Archived from the original on October 10, 2020. Retrieved October 8, 2020.

^ a b c d e Segal, David (May 16, 2022). "'Better Call Saul' Season 6, Episode 6 Recap: The Smell Test". The New York Times. New York, NY. Archived from the original on May 17, 2022. Retrieved May 17, 2022.

^ a b c Segal, David (February 23, 2020). "'Better Call Saul' Season 5 Premiere Recap: Just Chilling". The New York Times. New York, NY. Archived from the original on May 17, 2022. Retrieved May 17, 2022.

^ a b c Owen, Dan (May 11, 2022). "Television Review: Better Call Saul, 6.5 — 'Black and Blue'". Frame Rated. Archived from the original on May 17, 2022. Retrieved May 17, 2022.

^ a b Cwik, Greg (February 15, 2016). "Better Call Saul premiere recap: Switch". Entertainment Weekly. New York, NY.

^ a b Acken, Lori (February 22, 2016). "Better Call Saul Season 2 episode 2 recap: It don't mean squat". Channel Guide magazine. Brown Deer, WI. Archived from the original on May 31, 2022. Retrieved May 17, 2022.

^ a b Bogert, Tom (March 22, 2016). "Better Call Saul season 2 episode 6 recap: Mike the GOAT". FanSided. New York, NY. Archived from the original on October 19, 2022. Retrieved May 17, 2022.

^ a b c Armstrong, Neda (September 11, 2018). "Better Call Saul season 4, episode 6 review: Kim makes power moves". FanSided. New York, NY. Archived from the original on August 12, 2022. Retrieved May 17, 2022.

^ a b Pop Culture Mike (September 24, 2018). "TV Recap: Better Call Saul – Let's Do It Again". Pop Culture Review. Archived from the original on October 19, 2022. Retrieved May 17, 2022.

^ Potts, Kimberly (May 2, 2022). "In Better Call Saul, it's all fun and games until someone gets a visit from Mike". The A.V. Club. Chicago, IL. Archived from the original on May 5, 2022. Retrieved May 17, 2022.

^ a b c d e f g h Scassellati, Erica (May 16, 2022). "'Better Call Saul': Andrea Sooch Portrays Werner's Widow Margarethe". ShowbizCheatSheet. Asheville, NC. Archived from the original on May 27, 2022. Retrieved May 27, 2022.

^ Chapman, Deanna (October 9, 2018). "Better Call Saul says goodbye to Jimmy and hello to Saul Goodman". FanSided. Chicago, IL. Archived from the original on September 27, 2022. Retrieved May 27, 2022.

^ a b MacInnes, Paul (May 10, 2022). "Better Call Saul recap: season six, episode five – Jimmy's fists do the talking". The Guardian. London, United Kingdom. Archived from the original on May 27, 2022. Retrieved May 27, 2022.


vteBreaking BadEpisodesSeason 1
"Pilot"
"Cat's in the Bag..."
"...And the Bag's in the River"
"Cancer Man"
"Gray Matter"
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"
Season 2
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
"Grilled"
"Bit by a Dead Bee"
"Down"
"Breakage"
"Peekaboo"
"Negro y Azul"
"Better Call Saul"
"4 Days Out"
"Over"
"Mandala"
"Phoenix"
"ABQ"
Season 3
"No Más"
"Caballo sin Nombre"
"I.F.T."
"Green Light"
"Más"
"Sunset"
"One Minute"
"I See You"
"Kafkaesque"
"Fly"
"Abiquiu"
"Half Measures"
"Full Measure"
Season 4
"Box Cutter"
"Thirty-Eight Snub"
"Open House"
"Bullet Points"
"Shotgun"
"Cornered"
"Problem Dog"
"Hermanos"
"Bug"
"Salud"
"Crawl Space"
"End Times"
"Face Off"
Season 5Part 1
"Live Free or Die"
"Madrigal"
"Hazard Pay"
"Fifty-One"
"Dead Freight"
"Buyout"
"Say My Name"
"Gliding Over All"
Part 2
"Blood Money"
"Buried"
"Confessions"
"Rabid Dog"
"To'hajiilee"
"Ozymandias"
"Granite State"
"Felina"
Characters
Walter White
Skyler White
Jesse Pinkman
Hank Schrader
Marie Schrader
Walter White Jr.
Saul Goodman
Gus Fring
Mike Ehrmantraut
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Better Call Saul
"Breaking Bad"
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Metástasis
Talking Bad
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Baby Blue"
Faking Bad
Spiralix heisenbergi
"What Animated Women Want"
"Pickle Rick"
"Plug Walk"
"Celebrity Booze: The Ultimate Cash Grab"

 Category
 WikiQuote
 WikiCommons

vteBetter Call SaulEpisodesSeason 1
"Uno"
"Mijo"
"Nacho"
"Hero"
"Alpine Shepherd Boy"
"Five-O"
"Bingo"
"RICO"
"Pimento"
"Marco"
Season 2
"Switch"
"Cobbler"
"Amarillo"
"Gloves Off"
"Rebecca"
"Bali Ha'i"
"Inflatable"
"Fifi"
"Nailed"
"Klick"
Season 3
"Mabel"
"Witness"
"Sunk Costs"
"Sabrosito"
"Chicanery"
"Off Brand"
"Expenses"
"Slip"
"Fall"
"Lantern"
Season 4
"Smoke"
"Breathe"
"Something Beautiful"
"Talk"
"Quite a Ride"
"Piñata"
"Something Stupid"
"Coushatta"
"Wiedersehen"
"Winner"
Season 5
"Magic Man"
"50% Off"
"The Guy for This"
"Namaste"
"Dedicado a Max"
"Wexler v. Goodman"
"JMM"
"Bagman"
"Bad Choice Road"
"Something Unforgivable"
Season 6Part 1
"Wine and Roses"
"Carrot and Stick"
"Rock and Hard Place"
"Hit and Run"
"Black and Blue"
"Axe and Grind"
"Plan and Execution"
Part 2
"Point and Shoot"
"Fun and Games"
"Nippy"
"Breaking Bad"
"Waterworks"
"Saul Gone"
Characters
Jimmy McGill
Mike Ehrmantraut
Kim Wexler
Chuck McGill
Howard Hamlin
Nacho Varga
Gus Fring
Lalo Salamanca
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Breaking Bad ("Better Call Saul")
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Talking Saul
Slippin' Jimmy
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Address Unknown"

 Category





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_characters_in_the_Breaking_Bad_franchise&oldid=1225339320"



Season of television series
MythBustersNo. of episodes11 (includes 1 special)ReleaseOriginal networkDiscovery ChannelOriginal releaseMay 1 (2013-05-01) –October 17, 2013 (2013-10-17)Season chronology← Previous2012 season Next →2014 season List of episodes
The cast of the television series MythBusters perform experiments to verify or debunk urban legends, old wives' tales, and the like. This is a list of the various myths tested on the show as well as the results of the experiments (the myth is Busted, Plausible, or Confirmed). The 2013 season premiered on May 1, 2013, returning to its Wednesday time slot.[1]


Episode overview[edit]


No. in series

No. in season

Title

Original air date

Overall episode No.
1971"JATO Rocket Car: Mission Accomplished?"[1]May 1, 2013 (2013-05-01)218

Myths tested:Can a 1967 Chevy take off with JATO rockets, like in the tale of the JATO Rocket Car? (Revisit of: JATO Car)Note: This was the first of two "10th Anniversary" episodes
1982"Deadliest Catch Crabtastic Special"[1]May 8, 2013 (2013-05-08)219

Myths tested:Will a crab pot drag you overboard to the bottom if your foot is caught in a coil?Is it better to work a 30-hour grind with no sleep than a 20 minute nap every 6 hours?Are crab pots truly indestructible?Note: Deadliest Catch captains Johnathan Hillstrand and Scott "Junior" Campbell guest star in this episode.
1993"Down and Dirty/Earthquake Survival"[1]May 15, 2013 (2013-05-15)220

Myths tested:Is a bathroom's hand dryer better than a paper towel?Which public restroom stall is the cleanest?Is better to stand in the doorway during an earthquake?
2004"Indy Car Special"[1]May 22, 2013 (2013-05-22)221

Myths tested:Can man beat machine in a 30-ft, standing-start sprint?Can a driver lose 10 lbs during a race?Can the suction created by a speeding car rip loose a manhole cover during a street race?
2015"Battle of the Sexes: Round 2"[1]May 29, 2013 (2013-05-29)222

Myths tested:Will lost men really not stop and ask for directions?Are women better multi-taskers?Are women better at parallel parking?Are men better at throwing objects than women?
2026"Motorcycle Water Ski"[1]June 5, 2013 (2013-06-05) (US)[1]May 6, 2013 (AUS)[2]223

Myths tested:Can a motorcycle traveling at highway speeds drive across the surface of a lake?Can you survive a jump from a high-rise building with a parachute made from a hotel room's contents?
2037"Hypermiling/Crash Cushions"[1]June 12, 2013 (2013-06-12) (US)[1]May 27, 2013 (AUS)[3]224

Myths tested:Could a man sandwiched between two big men in the backseat of a car survive the car being T-boned by a truck, as seen in Headhunters?Can hypermiling techniques really double your car's fuel efficiency?
2048"Duct Tape Canyon"[1]June 19, 2013 (2013-06-19)225

Myths tested:Can Adam and Jamie cross a canyon and reach civilization using only basic supplies, duct tape, and bubble wrap?Note: This is a special episode. It was used to promote  Skywire Live.
2059"Painting With Explosives/Bifurcated Boat"[1]June 26, 2013 (2013-06-26)226

Myths tested:Can a room be painted using explosives via Adam's snowflake frame or Jamie's steel sphere?Can a boat be split in two by a channel marker? (Revisit of: Bifurcated Boat)Note: This was the second of two "10th Anniversary" episodes.
20610"Breaking Bad Special"[1]August 12, 2013 (2013-08-12) (US)[1]July 15, 2013 (AUS)[4]227

Myths tested:Can concentrated hydrofluoric acid in a bathtub completely dissolve a human body, create a hole through the tub, and dissolve the bathroom floor below it?Can a chunk of solid mercury fulminate thrown on the ground explode, kill or injure bystanders, and break nearby windows, all without injuring the thrower?Note: Breaking Bad creator Vince Gilligan and actor Aaron Paul make a guest appearance.
20711"Zombie Special"[1]October 17, 2013 (2013-10-17)228

Myths tested:Is an axe more effective than a gun when you are swarmed by zombies?Can the force of many people bust down a door?Can you escape from a horde of zombies?Note: The Walking Dead's Michael Rooker guest stars in this episode.



Episode 197 – "JATO Rocket Car: Mission Accomplished?"[edit]
Original air date: May 1, 2013
This was the first of two "10th Anniversary" episodes.

JATO 3: Mission Accomplished?[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


A car with a JATO rocket attached can speed up to 300 miles per hour (480 km/h), become airborne, and impact with the side of a cliff. A revisit of the "Jet Assisted Chevy" myth from the first pilot episode.

Re-Busted

For this experiment, Adam and Jamie planned the particulars for two launches, while the Build Team modified a large dump truck with a protective metal cage around the exterior of the cab for use as a mobile command bunker (later dubbed "the Beast"). The first test involved a Chevrolet Impala with five rockets attached, fired as it approached a line of 50-pound (23 kg) sandbags. The car crossed the sandbags at over 200 miles per hour (320 km/h), but only managed to get airborne by flipping and tumbling when Adam lost control of it. There was no indication that the sandbags had contributed to the car leaving the ground.
The second test involved a second Impala with six rockets attached, launched off a giant ramp as in the Supersized Myths special. This time, the car hit the ramp perfectly straight and was launched into the air, but it immediately began tumbling and landed about 600 feet (180 m) away. The team came to the conclusion that the myth scenario is impossible simply because cars are not shaped like rockets and are therefore not aerodynamic in a way that supports flight.


Episode 198 – "Deadliest Catch Crabtastic Special"[edit]
Original air date: May 8, 2013
This episode aired out of order on Discovery Channel in the United States, as the small-scale test for "Killer Loop" briefly referenced the small-scale test for "Crash Cushion".
For all three myths, Adam, Jamie, Tory, Kari and Grant were joined by two Deadliest Catch captains - F/V Time Bandit captain Johnathan Hillstrand and Seabrooke captain Scott Campbell Jr.

Killer Loop[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


A fisherman can be pulled to the bottom of the ocean if he is caught in a coiled rope attached to a sinking crab pot.

Plausible

A scale model test showed that over-under coiling was more effective in pulling someone overboard than regular coiling, but regular coiling was used for the full-scale test as it is a more common technique to be used on a crab boat. All tests in which Buster was standing up or leaning on the pot launcher failed to work; Buster would get caught on the pot launcher. However, a final test with Buster leaning over the rail finally resulted in him going overboard. When Buster was recovered, his depth gauge read 100 feet (30 m), and he was still attached to the rope in the same place it caught him. Jamie and Adam declared the myth plausible since getting caught in the coil does not guarantee that the person will go overboard, but remarked that if one were to go overboard they would, in fact, be pulled all the way to the bottom.

Crab Napping[edit]
Inspired by Bering Sea crab boat shifts lasting as long as 30 hours, which leads to some captains swearing by this myth.



Myth

Status

Notes


Working a 30-hour shift with a 20-minute nap every six hours results in double the performance of not getting any sleep.

Confirmed

Kari and Tory went onto an anchored ship and set up an obstacle course featuring tasks that a Bering Sea crab boat deckhand could expect to face, including throwing a hook, sorting crab, dodging mock versions of crab pots, answering navigation questions, and a steady hand test with a total 100 possible points. Kari and Tory both got perfect scores for their (fully rested) control and then ran two tests after 30 hours awake, with the difference being that the second included the 20-minute crab naps. Without the crab naps, Kari scored 27 and Tory scored 34, but after adding in the naps, Kari and Tory successfully doubled their scores in the re-test (and then some) with scores of 64 and 81.

Indestructible Pot[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


Crab pots are indestructible.

Busted

After the Build Team declared that any damage to the steel frame would have constituted some destruction, the first test with 3 lb (1 kg) of C4 suspended inside the pot failed to damage the steel. However, a second test with the same amount of C4 strategically placed below the pot in direct contact with the frame damaged the steel in multiple places. As a result, Johnathan and Scott treated the Build Team to dinner.

Episode 199 – "Down and Dirty/Earthquake Survival"[edit]
Original air date: May 15, 2013
Down and Dirty[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


Hand dryers in public restrooms are a less effective method of removing bacteria from one's hands after washing than paper towels, and spread more bacteria around the drying area.

Confirmed

First, to find out if washing hands even leaves behind any bacteria to be removed by hand dryers, Adam and Jamie tested three different, commonly used methods of "washing" hands, each followed by swabbing and incubating in Petri dishes: rubbing hands together without placing them under the water; getting hands wet but neglecting to use any soap; and washing hands with soap and water, which is the proper method. They discovered that washing their hands with soap and water yielded no bacteria whatsoever, whereas washing without soap left a fairly substantial amount of bacteria and attempting to wash without water left far too much to count.
Next, they enlisted 16 volunteers to have their hands sprayed with a harmless strain of Escherichia coli bacteria, then swabbed for a sample, then washed using water but no soap, then swabbed again, then dried using paper towels, then swabbed a third time. Then they repeated the process with the same volunteers, bacteria and washing technique, but using hand dryers instead. On average, the paper towels removed 71% of the bacteria on the volunteers' hands, while the hand dryers only removed 23%, confirming the first part of the myth.
Samples taken from swabbing the testing areas yielded 3 for the paper towels and 41 for the hand dryers, confirming the second part.


Stall Number 1[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


In a public restroom, the bathroom stall closest to the entrance is used the least often and contains the least amount of bacteria.

Confirmed

After 119 different men used a restroom with four bathroom stalls that had been freshly cleansed of all bacteria, Adam and Jamie swabbed each of the stalls and counted the number of colonies of bacteria produced. The stalls, numbered in order from the closest to the entrance (as 1) to the farthest (as 4), had 162, 267, 290 and 231 colonies, respectively. In addition, a tally of the users of each stall showed that the stalls were used by 23, 38, 34 and 24 people, respectively.

Earthquake Emergency[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


Standing in a doorway yields the best chance of survival when an earthquake hits.

Busted

The Build Team built a 13 by 11 feet (4.0 m × 3.4 m) earthquake shaking table using pneumatic valve springs and air casters, then had a small masonry house built on top of it. They placed mannequins in three different locations inside the house: one standing in the room, one lying under a table, and one standing in the doorway. When they started up the shake table, the masonry house began to collapse fairly quickly, except for the doorframe. The mannequins standing in the room and lying under the table suffered, but the one in the doorway was subject only to being battered by the swinging door.
Then they retested with a new house with a wooden frame, and the mannequin standing inside was soon dispatched, but the doorway and table mannequins remained intact. After a final shake with enough force to simulate a magnitude 9.5 earthquake, the doorway mannequin fell over, leaving the under-the-table mannequin the last one to survive. Despite the doorway testing as the best spot in the masonry house, the Build Team declared the myth busted due to the high rarity of such houses in current times.


Episode 200 – "Indy Car Special"[edit]
Original air date: May 22, 2013
Man vs. Car[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


In a 30-foot (9.1 m) race, a human can outrun a race car.

Busted

At the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in Speedway, Indiana, Jamie and Adam each took turns driving the race car, while the other tried to outrun it. Each tried three times, and Adam had one dead heat with the race car, but they both ultimately failed to beat it. They then enlisted Olympic runner Wallace Spearmon to race against IndyCar Series driver Ryan Briscoe, with the latter winning by a comfortable margin every time.

Manhole Mishap[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


During an IndyCar Series road race, race cars can generate enough suction against the ground while driving to remove manhole covers from their manholes.

Busted

Adam and Jamie installed a mock manhole cover inside a mock manhole that was dug by the owners of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, adding weights to the bottom because the cover itself weighed less than a real one. They attached high-strength line to the cover so it could only move half an inch. Finally, IndyCar Series racer Logan Gomez drove over the manhole cover at 100 and 150 miles per hour (240 km/h), but failed to impart enough force to move it. After removing the weights for a final test, the car imparted 37 pounds-force (160 N) on the manhole cover, which was just barely enough to move it at all, and would certainly not be enough to move a real manhole cover.

Sweaty Speed[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


During an IndyCar Series race, a driver can lose 10 pounds (4.5 kg).

Plausible

As a control test, the Build Team spent three hours, the length of an Indianapolis 500 race, in a dry sauna. Grant and Kari lost 1 pound (0.45 kg) each, while Tory lost 2 pounds (0.91 kg). Next, Tory spent three hours driving a race car around the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, but only lost 3 pounds (1.4 kg). As a final test, the Build Team drove laps for three hours around Thunderhill Raceway Park. Kari lost 5.5 pounds (2.5 kg), Tory lost 5 pounds (2.3 kg), and Grant lost 4.5 pounds (2.0 kg). Although it was not the amount required by the myth, they deemed it plausible due to the much more extreme circumstances in a longer and faster race such as the Indianapolis 500.

Episode 201 – "Battle of the Sexes: Round 2"[edit]
Original air date: May 29, 2013
Man Throw[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


Men are better at throwing objects than women. Based on the insult of "throwing like a girl" towards a grown male (i.e. throwing with less power than needed).

Busted

Adam and Jamie selected a female and a male from each of four age groups: 7-, 12-, 18- and 24-year-olds. In the first test, which involved throwing tennis balls at a target, the females threw more accurately than the males, but not as fast. They repeated the test with the 7- and 24-year-olds in a motion capture studio at Industrial Light & Magic in order to analyze the subjects' body movements while throwing, and noted that the females tended to throw while keeping their bodies upright, while the males leaned forward, more closely resembling the movement of professional baseball pitcher Greg Reynolds. In the final test, which had the subjects use their non-preferred hands to make throws, the males threw more accurately but not as fast, a reversal of the first test. Additionally, all subjects showed the same form when using their non-preferred hands, regardless of gender. Finally, Adam and Jamie enlisted softball pitcher Jordan Taylor for the test, and found that her form was identical to that of Greg Reynolds. The MythBusters declared the myth busted on the basis that throwing objects is a skill that can be learned with equal effectiveness by both genders, and that any perceived difference is due to cultural bias that exposes males to more ball sports.

Multi-Tasking Talent[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


Women are better at multitasking than men.

Confirmed

The Build Team devised a "morning routine" test where the subjects had to get dressed, iron clothes, make tea, toast and a sandwich within five minutes while answering three trivia questions over a cell phone and ensuring that a robotic baby Buster did not crawl outside of a marked zone within the stage area. Each test subject began with a base score of 100, with deductions of 10 points apiece for failed or incomplete tasks. Ten women achieved an average score of 72, while ten men averaged 64. Additionally, the only perfect score of the test was scored by a woman.

Ask for Directions[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


Men do not ask for directions as often as women when they get lost.

Busted

Adam and Jamie set up a test where the subject was instructed to follow a set of directions that included one intentional misdirection in the area of an intersection surrounded by volunteers that the subjects could ask for directions. Ten men and ten women took the test, with nine people from each gender asking for directions. The tie was resolved by the fact that the men spent an average of 4:11 driving before asking for directions, while the women spent an average of 5:11 before doing the same, busting the myth.

Parking Power[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


Women are better at parallel parking than men.

Busted

Kari and Tory judged as ten men and ten women took turns parallel parking. Scoring was based on a starting score of 100, with deductions for not centering the car properly, bumping into the cars in front of and behind the parking car, and any corrections or reattempts. The men had scores that were consistently average and mediocre, while the women fluctuated wildly between great and terrible scores. Ultimately, the men scored a 43.6 average, and the women scored a 42.5 average, too close to discern a statistical difference.

Observation Skills[edit]
This segment was cut from the episode when it aired in the United States.



Myth

Status

Notes


Women are better at observation than men.[5]

Plausible

In a replication of the Simons-Chabris invisible gorilla test designed to measure general inattentional blindness, ten men and ten women were shown a video of two three-man teams passing basketballs and were told to count the number of times a white team member passed a basketball, while the true aim was to see if the subjects could spot a zombie (Kari in a costume) walking amongst the action. Only one man and two women were able to do so successfully, leading the Build Team to call the myth plausible due to the marginal results.

Episode 202 – "Motorcycle Water Ski"[edit]
Original US air date: June 5, 2013
Original Australia air date: May 6, 2013
Motorcycle Mayhem[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


A motorcycle moving at freeway speed can ride across the surface of a lake, as demonstrated in a YouTube viral video.

Confirmed (but not recommended)

Adam and Jamie set up a small-scale test using a remote-controlled toy motorcycle and a fabricated small pond of scaled depth, but in all their test runs, the high-speed camera showed the RC motorcycle riding mostly along the bottom of the pond. They next attempted to see if a motorcycle could actually achieve buoyancy on water; to do this, they built a rig to attach a motorcycle wheel to the side of a speedboat, and despite some initial difficulties getting the boat up to speed (solved by having Jamie counterbalance the added weight on the rear of the boat by lying on the bow), were eventually able to get the tire to skim on the surface at 60 miles per hour (97 km/h). They then enlisted AMA supercross veteran Eric McCrummen for a full scale test; McCrummen successfully rode his motorcycle across 50 ft (15 m) and then 100 ft (30 m) of open water with a depth of 3 feet (0.91 m), confirming the myth. Finally, Jamie attempted to ride across a very long stretch of open water to determine if the motorcycle was merely skipping across the surface on existing momentum or was in fact able to generate power while on top of the water; he sank after riding about 300 feet (91 m).

Homemade Parachute[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


A criminal holed up in a hotel room could have jumped to safety from 20 stories without injury using a parachute constructed in 3 hours from materials in the room.

Busted

The Build Team decided to attempt building their own parachutes individually, with each having access to the same materials as the criminal would have had and a 3-hour time limit. Despite each successfully constructing a differently shaped parachute out of different materials within the time limit, none of the parachutes were able to slow Buster's descent (when dropped from a 20-story height by a crane) enough to prevent him from sustaining a lethal g-force in excess of 100 g, with Grant's design faring the best at 144 g. The team followed up by testing various materials common to hotel rooms against actual parachute material by weight and air resistance, using the results along with mathematical calculations to construct a "best case" parachute out of shower curtains. While Buster survived a drop from 30 stories with this final parachute with no injuries (sustaining a g-force of only 4.2 g), the team declared the myth busted because the final parachute required far more material (a whole floor of rooms's worth of shower curtains, as opposed to a single room) and more time to construct than the criminal would have had available to him, as well as involving significant design challenges.

Episode 203 – "Hypermiling/Crash Cushions"[edit]
Original US air date: June 12, 2013
Original Australia air date: May 27, 2013
Crash Cushion[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


A person seated between overweight policemen in the backseat of a car can survive the impact of a T-bone collision from a truck driving at highway speed. Based on a scene in the film Headhunters.

Busted

For the small-scale test, Adam built a scale model of the car from the movie out of polycarbonate, and small leather pouches filled with a water balloon to simulate the overweight policemen. When hit from the side with a large tree stump, a mini-Buster seated alone in the backseat of the model car sustained a lethal g-force of 150 g, but a survivable 30 g when placed between the two simulated policemen, giving the myth plausibility.
For the full-scale experiment, Adam and Jamie modified the Beast (previously seen in the final JATO Rocket Car revisit) with a large steel plate welded in front. When they used the Beast to T-bone the actual car from the movie at 50 miles per hour (80 km/h), the MythBusters (to their shock) achieved the opposite result: A simulated cadaver placed between two 350 lb (159 kg) simulated policemen (crafted by Adam and Jamie out of foam and rubber, then filled with water) in the backseat sustained more lethal injuries (including a full decapitation) and maxed out g-force sensors at over 800 g, as compared with a control test with the simulated cadaver alone in the backseat (where the damage and g-force numbers at 500–600 g, while still very much lethal, were noticeably better). Jamie speculated the reason for this may be the human body largely being made up of water and water's lack of compressibility, thus making the human body ineffective as a cushion.


Hypermiling[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


You can use various hypermiling techniques in concert with each other to double the fuel efficiency of your car.

Busted

The Build Team began by individually testing the (legal) hypermiling techniques that the show had yet to examine – driving at a slower speed on the highway, accelerating and braking in as slow and smooth a fashion as possible, and turning off the engine when idling at a red light. All of the individual tests showed an increase in fuel efficiency of about 30% for the hypermiling technique compared with standard technique.
They then proceeded to perform tests on two different vehicles (Kari and Grant in a new vehicle, Tory in an older vehicle with 75,000 miles (121,000 km) on the engine) comparing standard driving with a combination of all hypermiling techniques, with each car getting 3-US-gallon (11 L) of gas for both the control and hypermiling test. Kari and Grant's car traveled 64 miles (103 km) for the control and 90 miles (140 km) for the hypermiling test (a 40% gain), compared with Tory's figures of 78 miles (126 km) and 136 miles (219 km) respectively (a 70% gain). Despite declaring the myth busted, the Build Team noted the effectiveness of hypermiling techniques in improving the fuel efficiency of a car.


Episode 204 – "Duct Tape Canyon"[edit]
Original air date: June 19, 2013
The Build Team does not appear in this episode.

Duct Tape Canyon Special[edit]
In this spiritual successor to Duct Tape Island, Adam and Jamie are stranded in a barren wasteland near Desolation Canyon, Utah with only duct tape, bubble wrap and a few other basic staples (e.g. food, water and a knife), and must depend on these limited resources to cross the canyon and reach civilization. Features a cameo appearance by Nik Wallenda to promote the Discovery Channel special Skywire Live, which aired the weekend following the original airing of this episode.
Adam and Jamie's goals were to...



Myth

Status

Notes


...find the canyon.

Confirmed

To survive the temperature (which was around 0 °C (32 °F) at the time), Adam and Jamie wrapped themselves in ponchos made from bubble wrap and held together with duct tape. They then found a nearby mesa from which to survey the turf and locate the canyon.


...make shelter and a fire.

Confirmed

Jamie used duct tape to forge a low-hanging tent to sleep in while lying on a mattress of bubble pack, while Adam slept in the car they used to get stranded. Adam was also able to use sparks from the car's battery to make a fire, after making duct tape handles for the battery's wires which tended to get hot.


...carry their supplies across the desert.

Confirmed

Jamie used large branches and duct tape to construct a travois to haul most of the supplies, while Adam made a bag and several yards of rope out of duct tape. Along the way to the canyon, they modified their shoes for further comfort while hiking by cutting out the toes and wrapping them in duct tape.


...descend safely into the canyon.

Confirmed

The MythBusters tied several of the ropes together and used them to slowly climb down one of the walls of the canyon, taking advantage of a few ledges and footholds along the way. They descended a total distance of 150 feet (46 m).


...paddle along rapids to the end of the canyon.

Partly Confirmed

Before building any boats to use, Adam was first wrapped in a thick suit of bubble wrap and duct tape, intending for it to be insulated and waterproof; however, cold water started to seep in after a short time and Adam soon lost his ability to control himself due to the added buoyancy of the bubble wrap.
So to brave the rapids, they built two separate crafts out of bubble wrap pontoons held together by duct tape: Jamie made a large raft that resembled an inflatable pool sofa, and Adam constructed a long kayak. They each took their boats out onto the river and paddled downstream, where they repeatedly faced rapids of increasing difficulty, until they eventually reached a Class 5 rapid. Adam rode first, but his boat soon flipped and he fell out, forcing him to ride the rest of the rapids outside of the boat. He managed to survive, and found a large rock afterwards on which to rest and reenter the boat. Jamie handled the rapids by using the rocks to stand on as he carried his boat through narrow gaps, then rode the rest of the way without any problems.
They discovered a waterfall soon after, and decided to bypass it on land instead of attempting to ride down. They used some more rope to climb down a 25 feet (7.6 m) cliff past the waterfall, after which they paddled their boats out of the canyon and headed for civilization.


Episode 205 – "Painting With Explosives/Bifurcated Boat"[edit]
Original air date: June 26, 2013
This was the second of two "10th Anniversary" episodes.

Painting with Explosives[edit]
Adam and Jamie decided to revisit the myth of Painting with Explosives, based on the episode "Do-It-Yourself Mr. Bean" of the British comedy series Mr. Bean starring Rowan Atkinson. They tested to find out if a small room could be painted with explosives using...



Myth

Status

Notes


...Adam's snowflake frame.

No result

After some preliminary tests at the bomb range attempting to use C4 to spread paint onto a canvas, Adam found the most effective method was using detasheet spread behind a bag of paint. He then built a large, six-directional frame and placed canvases on the six ends. When the explosive detonated, each of the canvases ended up almost entirely covered in paint. Though successful, it was not actually an attempt to paint a room, and thus it was not given a Busted, Plausible or Confirmed rating.


...Jamie's steel sphere.

Busted

Jamie's device in this episode[6]
Jamie first experimented with various nozzle shapes until he found one that created a large, rectangular spread of paint. He also conducted preliminary tests at the bomb range, using a scuba tank filled with explosives with the nozzle attached, but it failed to paint the wall in a better spread than a scuba tank without the nozzle. Jamie surmised that the energy from the explosive wasn't properly spraying the paint out through the nozzle in the intended fashion because the scuba tank was cylindrical, so he built a large, heavy-duty spherical tank (dubbed a Death Star by J.D. Nelson) out of specially cut steel circles with nozzles in four directions. He then placed his tank within a small room with four walls, with the nozzles facing the walls, and placed dynamite and paint inside the tank. When the dynamite went off, the paint sprayed to cover hardly any of the area of the walls.


Bifurcated Boat[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


A boat moving at 25 miles per hour (40 km/h) can be split down the middle by hitting a channel marker. A revisit of the 2007 myth Bifurcated Boat.

Re-Busted

As per fan requests, the Build Team decided to test the myth on water, contrasting the previous tests on land. They also used a wooden channel marker instead of the metal one used in the previous tests. They planted their channel marker in a small part of the lake, then set up two boats to tow a third one (dubbed Mythity Split 2) into the channel marker. Before they could test, however, a barge suddenly appeared and knocked over their channel marker, creating a bad omen that the "curse of the bifurcated boat" was returning. Undaunted, the team planted a second channel marker and towed their boat into it at 25 mph, which ended up splitting the marker instead of the boat, re-busting the myth.
To split the boat once and for all, they traveled to the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology to use their rocket sled. Instead of propelling the boat towards a channel marker (fearing that the boat would disintegrate), they placed a metal pole on the sled and propelled it using two rocket motors. It traveled toward the boat at 200 miles per hour (320 km/h) and finally split the boat in two.


Episode 206 – "Breaking Bad Special"[edit]
Original US air date: August 12, 2013
Original Australia air date: July 15, 2013
This episode features myths drawn from the AMC drama series Breaking Bad, which had been teased since it was reported as early as the year before by Entertainment Weekly.[7] Guesting in this episode are show creator/producer Vince Gilligan and co-starring actor Aaron Paul (Jesse Pinkman).
The episode had already been aired in several international markets (such as on SBSOne on July 15, 2013 and on Discovery Channel Southeast Asia on July 22, 2013) before making its US debut on August 12, 2013. The late US airing was timed to coincide with Breaking Bad's final season (second half) premiere the night before.



Myth

Status

Notes


Concentrated hydrofluoric acid in a bathtub can completely destroy a human body and eat a hole through the tub and the bathroom floor below it. From the season 1 episode "Cat's in the Bag...".

Busted


At UC-Berkeley, Adam and Jamie observed as 100-mL portions of the acid were poured onto samples of seven materials that would have been present in the bathroom: steel, wood, linoleum, drywall, ceramic-coated cast iron, ceramic alone, and pig flesh (to represent the human body). After 8 hours of soaking, the materials had deteriorated to various degrees, but none had been completely destroyed. Adam noted that although fluorine is the most reactive of the halogens, it forms the weakest acid of the group when it combines with hydrogen.
Jamie brought in a load of concentrated sulfuric acid, along with a second chemical that he referred to as "special sauce" to increase its corrosive ability. He and Adam built a bathroom set at a sanitary landfill, with a catch tank to contain any spills, and filled its cast-iron tub with 35 pounds (16 kg) of pig carcass parts and 6 US gallons (23 L) of the acid/"sauce" mixture. This liquid volume was three times the amount used in the actual scene. The tub contents eventually began to bubble, smoke, and give off large amounts of heat; however, some solid material remained after 20 minutes and neither the tub nor the floor leaked.
Acting on suggestions from Vince and Aaron, Adam and Jamie decided to use a larger quantity of acid/"sauce" (36 US gallons (140 L)) and a tub made from a more susceptible material. Fiberglass degraded quickly when exposed to the acid, so the two set up a full-scale test using it for their tub. Once the mixture was added, the reaction was so vigorous that the entire set was briefly hidden under thick clouds of smoke. After 5 minutes, Adam and Jamie found only a black organic sludge in the tub; although large amounts of liquid had boiled over the side, neither the tub nor the floor had been eaten through. Since they were unable to replicate the scene, they declared the myth busted.
Although the "sauce" was never explicitly identified, Jamie mentioned that the "sauce" had a lot of hydrogen and oxygen, and Adam said the concentration was 30%.[citation needed] Based on this description, the chemical being referred to was likely hydrogen peroxide, thus creating a solution commonly known as piranha solution (confirmed at Adam Savage's San Diego Comic Con 2015 panel[8]). Jamie noted that what he and Adam saw in the aftermath in the tub matched in contents with what fell through the ceiling after the reaction in the episode.


Crazy Handful[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


A chunk of solid mercury fulminate will explode if thrown on the ground, and the blast will kill/injure bystanders and break the windows without injuring the thrower. From the season 1 episode "Crazy Handful of Nothin'."

Busted

At a remote rock quarry, the Build Team enlisted the help of explosives consultant Jesse Taylor to make a batch of the compound, which is sensitive to mechanical shock. They started with a charge of 5 grams, placed inside a pumpkin and detonated with an explosive squib; the blast obliterated the pumpkin.
Grant built a robot to throw the charge down with typical human force, while Kari and Tory built a room identical to the one used in the show scene. They placed mannequins at appropriate positions and set rupture discs next to each, calibrated to burst at 13 pounds per square inch (90 kPa) (injury) and 75 pounds per square inch (520 kPa) (death). A charge of 50 grams failed to explode when thrown down, but Vince imagined that Walter may have mixed a quantity of even more sensitive silver fulminate into the batch. The team fitted their 50-gram charge with a blasting cap to ensure it would explode, then set it off. The "injury" discs burst on this trial, but none of the windows blew out.
In an attempt to replicate the explosion in the scene, Jesse made a 250-gram batch and the team set it off as in the second trial. This time, the resulting explosion broke the windows, burst every rupture disc, and blew the walls and ceiling apart. Because 5 times more explosive was required than used in the show, the team declared the myth busted.


As a postscript, in the 2015 episode Blow It Out of the Water, Adam and Jamie – with Gilligan present – also tested the viability of Walter's jury-rigged car trunk machine gun trap in Felina, the Breaking Bad series finale, and found it plausible.

Episode 207 – "Zombie Special"[edit]
Original air date: October 17, 2013
This special episode was timed to air in the US immediately following the Discovery Channel special Apocalypse Preppers and in the same week as the season 4 premiere of The Walking Dead. Features a special guest appearance by Michael Rooker, who portrayed Merle Dixon in seasons 1–3 of The Walking Dead.

Axe vs. Gun[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


An axe is a more effective weapon against a horde of zombies than a gun.

Confirmed

In preparation for testing and to ensure the zombie volunteers' safety, Adam and Jamie fashioned plastic masks to protect the volunteers' faces from paintball gunshots, while Adam fashioned an axehead out of foam that would leave a paint mark when used to strike. Additionally, Michael Rooker coached the volunteers in the "zombie shuffle" form of movement that would be used consistently for all tests throughout the episode.
For the test itself, Adam and Jamie marked off a "human zone" 30 feet (9.1 m) in diameter inside a hangar. On start, the zombies would approach the human zone, with Adam and Jamie forbidden from engaging a zombie until it entered the human zone. Adam (using the foam axe) averaged 14 kills across two runs, while Jamie (using a modified shotgun) only averaged 7 kills across two runs. Despite declaring the myth confirmed, Adam and Jamie would acknowledge practical limitations and issues with the parameters of the test in the episode's aftershow.[9]


Dead Heat[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


It is impossible to outrun or escape from a massively large zombie horde.

Busted

The Build Team set up a post-apocalyptic obstacle course on the Alameda runway in which 150 zombie volunteers would be dispersed over varying amounts of space to simulate various population densities. The volunteers were given a set of rules for their behavior gleaned from information Tory received in a consultation with The Walking Dead SFX artist Gregory Nicotero.
The zombie threat was simulated by small brains attached to their clothes; allowing a zombie to grab one would be counted as failure. Kari successfully crossed a horde similar in density to the population of Manhattan, while Tory survived a horde the density of overpopulated areas of Mumbai. However, Grant, faced with the highest density known to mankind – 180,000 people per square mile – was unsuccessful in escaping the horde.
The team then tried various techniques to see if they could divert the horde's attention away from them so as to successfully traverse this largest population density. Kari used Tory as a sacrifice and Grant used a robotic decoy; both tactics were successful. Tory opted to disguise himself as a zombie and blend in with the horde, but was recognized midway through his run and could not escape. Despite this, the team declared the myth busted since the horde could be escaped from through both speed and technique.


Power of the Push[edit]


Myth

Status

Notes


A zombie horde can collectively force their way through any barricaded door.

Busted

For this test, Adam and Jamie placed a steel frame inside the archway of a nineteenth-century barn as a place to install a series of double-doored gateways. The safety precautions for this test involved all zombie volunteers (and Adam, who participated in this test as one of the zombies) wearing cutouts of polyethylene sewer pipes, in order to prevent the volunteers from accidentally stumbling over and being trampled.
On the first run, using rickety wood doors held in place by a single two-by-four, the doors gave way almost immediately when the zombie horde haphazardly pushed up against it. The second run, using doors of more robust wood with a single two-by-four, didn't fare much better, as it gave way with a single coordinated push by the horde. However, after Jamie and Michael reinforced the second set of doors with as much available wood as was on hand, the horde was unable to penetrate the doors on the third run, thus busting the myth.


References[edit]


^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o "MythBusters 2013 Episode Guide". Discovery Channel. Discovery Communications. Archived from the original on March 2, 2019. Retrieved January 24, 2016.

^ "Motorcycle Water Ski". SBS Program Guide. SBS. Archived from the original on May 11, 2013. Retrieved May 28, 2013.

^ "Hypermiling/Crash Cushions". SBS Program Guide. SBS. Retrieved June 12, 2013.[dead link]

^ "Breaking Bad Special". SBS Program Guide. SBS. Archived from the original on September 24, 2015. Retrieved July 28, 2013.

^ MythBusters – Battle Of The Sexes (video). Discovery Asia/Youtube. May 6, 2013. Retrieved July 27, 2013.

^ "Explosive Painting Aftershow". Discovery. Retrieved April 19, 2015.

^ Snierson, Dan (November 2, 2012). "'MythBusters' to do 'Breaking Bad'-themed episode with Aaron Paul and Vince Gilligan – EXCLUSIVE". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved August 11, 2013.

^ "Adam Savage's Comic-Con 2015 Panel (with Special Guests!) - Tested". Tested.com. July 22, 2015. Retrieved July 27, 2015. question at 33:21, "it's called 'Piranha'" at 33:55

^ "MythBusters: Zombie Special Aftershow M5 : Video : Discovery Channel". Discovery Channel. October 17, 2013. Retrieved October 19, 2013.



General references
"MythBusters 2013 Episode Guide". Discovery Channel. Retrieved April 25, 2013.
"MythBusters Episodes". TV Guide. Retrieved April 25, 2013.

External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to MythBusters.




Wikiquote has quotations related to MythBusters.

Official website
MythBusters at IMDb 
vteMythBustersEpisodes
Pilots
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
Specials
Related articles
Cast members
Deadblow
M5 Industries
The Search
MythBusters Jr.
Unchained Reaction
White Rabbit Project





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=MythBusters_(2013_season)&oldid=1215726191"




Breaking Bad is an American television drama series created by Vince Gilligan for the cable network AMC. The series follows Walter White (Bryan Cranston), a 50-year-old high school chemistry teacher in Albuquerque, New Mexico. After White is diagnosed with terminal lung cancer, he uses his chemistry expertise to cook crystal meth, assisted by his former student Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul), to secure his family's (played by Anna Gunn and RJ Mitte) inheritance before he dies.
During the course of the series, 62 episodes of Breaking Bad aired over five seasons. The pilot episode first aired on January 20, 2008, and the series finale first aired on September 29, 2013. Breaking Bad: Original Minisodes, which consisted of several one- to five-minute clips, released 17 short episodes over the course of three years throughout Breaking Bad's run.[1]
On October 11, 2019, Netflix released El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie, a feature film continuation of Breaking Bad, written and directed by Gilligan.[2] An additional short film Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short was released on February 17, 2020.[3]


Series overview[edit]
SeasonEpisodesOriginally airedFirst airedLast aired17January 20, 2008 (2008-01-20)March 9, 2008 (2008-03-09)213March 8, 2009 (2009-03-08)May 31, 2009 (2009-05-31)313March 21, 2010 (2010-03-21)June 13, 2010 (2010-06-13)413July 17, 2011 (2011-07-17)October 9, 2011 (2011-10-09)5168July 15, 2012 (2012-07-15)September 2, 2012 (2012-09-02)8August 11, 2013 (2013-08-11)September 29, 2013 (2013-09-29)FilmOctober 11, 2019 (2019-10-11)
Episodes[edit]
Season 1 (2008)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad (season 1)
No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)11"Pilot"Vince GilliganVince GilliganJanuary 20, 2008 (2008-01-20)1.41[4]
22"Cat's in the Bag..."Adam BernsteinVince GilliganJanuary 27, 2008 (2008-01-27)1.49[5]
33"...And the Bag's in the River"Adam BernsteinVince GilliganFebruary 10, 2008 (2008-02-10)1.08[6]
44"Cancer Man"Jim McKayVince GilliganFebruary 17, 2008 (2008-02-17)1.09[7]
55"Gray Matter"Tricia BrockPatty LinFebruary 24, 2008 (2008-02-24)0.97[a]
66"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"Bronwen HughesGeorge MastrasMarch 2, 2008 (2008-03-02)1.07[8]
77"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"Tim HunterPeter GouldMarch 9, 2008 (2008-03-09)1.50[9]
Season 2 (2009)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad (season 2)
No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)81"Seven Thirty-Seven"Bryan CranstonJ. RobertsMarch 8, 2009 (2009-03-08)1.66[10]
92"Grilled"Charles HaidGeorge MastrasMarch 15, 2009 (2009-03-15)1.60[11]
103"Bit by a Dead Bee"Terry McDonoughPeter GouldMarch 22, 2009 (2009-03-22)1.13[12]
114"Down"John DahlSam CatlinMarch 29, 2009 (2009-03-29)1.29[13]
125"Breakage"Johan RenckMoira Walley-BeckettApril 5, 2009 (2009-04-05)1.21[14]
136"Peekaboo"Peter MedakJ. Roberts & Vince GilliganApril 12, 2009 (2009-04-12)1.41[15]
147"Negro y Azul"Felix AlcalaJohn ShibanApril 19, 2009 (2009-04-19)1.20[16]
158"Better Call Saul"Terry McDonoughPeter GouldApril 26, 2009 (2009-04-26)1.04[17]
169"4 Days Out"Michelle MacLarenSam CatlinMay 3, 2009 (2009-05-03)1.27[18]
1710"Over"Phil AbrahamMoira Walley-BeckettMay 10, 2009 (2009-05-10)1.19[19]
1811"Mandala"Adam BernsteinGeorge MastrasMay 17, 2009 (2009-05-17)1.29[20]
1912"Phoenix"Colin BuckseyJohn ShibanMay 24, 2009 (2009-05-24)1.19[21]
2013"ABQ"Adam BernsteinVince GilliganMay 31, 2009 (2009-05-31)1.50[22]
Season 3 (2010)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad (season 3)
No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)211"No Más"Bryan CranstonVince GilliganMarch 21, 2010 (2010-03-21)1.95[23]
222"Caballo sin Nombre"Adam BernsteinPeter GouldMarch 28, 2010 (2010-03-28)1.55[23]
233"I.F.T."Michelle MacLarenGeorge MastrasApril 4, 2010 (2010-04-04)1.33[23]
244"Green Light"Scott WinantSam CatlinApril 11, 2010 (2010-04-11)1.46[23]
255"Más"Johan RenckMoira Walley-BeckettApril 18, 2010 (2010-04-18)1.61[23]
266"Sunset"John ShibanJohn ShibanApril 25, 2010 (2010-04-25)1.64[23]
277"One Minute"Michelle MacLarenThomas SchnauzMay 2, 2010 (2010-05-02)1.52[23]
288"I See You"Colin BuckseyGennifer HutchisonMay 9, 2010 (2010-05-09)1.78[23]
299"Kafkaesque"Michael SlovisPeter Gould & George MastrasMay 16, 2010 (2010-05-16)1.61[23]
3010"Fly"Rian JohnsonSam Catlin & Moira Walley-BeckettMay 23, 2010 (2010-05-23)1.20[23]
3111"Abiquiu"Michelle MacLarenJohn Shiban & Thomas SchnauzMay 30, 2010 (2010-05-30)1.32[23]
3212"Half Measures"Adam BernsteinSam Catlin & Peter GouldJune 6, 2010 (2010-06-06)1.19[23]
3313"Full Measure"Vince GilliganVince GilliganJune 13, 2010 (2010-06-13)1.56[24]
Season 4 (2011)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad (season 4)
No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)341"Box Cutter"Adam BernsteinVince GilliganJuly 17, 2011 (2011-07-17)2.58[25]
352"Thirty-Eight Snub"Michelle MacLarenGeorge MastrasJuly 24, 2011 (2011-07-24)1.97[26]
363"Open House"David SladeSam CatlinJuly 31, 2011 (2011-07-31)1.71[27]
374"Bullet Points"Colin BuckseyMoira Walley-BeckettAugust 7, 2011 (2011-08-07)1.83[28]
385"Shotgun"Michelle MacLarenThomas SchnauzAugust 14, 2011 (2011-08-14)1.75[29]
396"Cornered"Michael SlovisGennifer HutchisonAugust 21, 2011 (2011-08-21)1.67[30]
407"Problem Dog"Peter GouldPeter GouldAugust 28, 2011 (2011-08-28)1.91[31]
418"Hermanos"Johan RenckSam Catlin & George MastrasSeptember 4, 2011 (2011-09-04)1.98[32]
429"Bug"Terry McDonoughMoira Walley-Beckett & Thomas SchnauzSeptember 11, 2011 (2011-09-11)1.89[33]
4310"Salud"Michelle MacLarenPeter Gould & Gennifer HutchisonSeptember 18, 2011 (2011-09-18)1.80[34]
4411"Crawl Space"Scott WinantGeorge Mastras & Sam CatlinSeptember 25, 2011 (2011-09-25)1.55[35]
4512"End Times"Vince GilliganThomas Schnauz & Moira Walley-BeckettOctober 2, 2011 (2011-10-02)1.73[36]
4613"Face Off"Vince GilliganVince GilliganOctober 9, 2011 (2011-10-09)1.90[37]
Season 5 (2012–13)[edit]
Main article: Breaking Bad (season 5)
No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)Part One
471"Live Free or Die"Michael SlovisVince GilliganJuly 15, 2012 (2012-07-15)2.93[38]
482"Madrigal"Michelle MacLarenVince GilliganJuly 22, 2012 (2012-07-22)2.29[39]
493"Hazard Pay"Adam BernsteinPeter GouldJuly 29, 2012 (2012-07-29)2.20[40]
504"Fifty-One"Rian JohnsonSam CatlinAugust 5, 2012 (2012-08-05)2.29[41]
515"Dead Freight"George MastrasGeorge MastrasAugust 12, 2012 (2012-08-12)2.48[42]
526"Buyout"Colin BuckseyGennifer HutchisonAugust 19, 2012 (2012-08-19)2.81[43]
537"Say My Name"Thomas SchnauzThomas SchnauzAugust 26, 2012 (2012-08-26)2.98[44]
548"Gliding Over All"Michelle MacLarenMoira Walley-BeckettSeptember 2, 2012 (2012-09-02)2.78[45]
Part Two
559"Blood Money"Bryan CranstonPeter GouldAugust 11, 2013 (2013-08-11)5.92[46]
5610"Buried"Michelle MacLarenThomas SchnauzAugust 18, 2013 (2013-08-18)4.77[47]
5711"Confessions"Michael SlovisGennifer HutchisonAugust 25, 2013 (2013-08-25)4.85[48]
5812"Rabid Dog"Sam CatlinSam CatlinSeptember 1, 2013 (2013-09-01)4.41[49]
5913"To'hajiilee"Michelle MacLarenGeorge MastrasSeptember 8, 2013 (2013-09-08)5.11[50]
6014"Ozymandias"Rian JohnsonMoira Walley-BeckettSeptember 15, 2013 (2013-09-15)6.37[51]
6115"Granite State"Peter GouldPeter GouldSeptember 22, 2013 (2013-09-22)6.58[52]
6216"Felina"Vince GilliganVince GilliganSeptember 29, 2013 (2013-09-29)10.28[53]
Film[edit]
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie (2019)[edit]
Main article: El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie is a film written and directed by series creator Vince Gilligan that serves as a continuation of the television series.[2] It was released on October 11, 2019, on Netflix and was broadcast on AMC on February 16, 2020.[2][54] The film centers around Jesse Pinkman, and takes place both during his captivity at the hands of the Aryan Brotherhood and after his escape in the Breaking Bad series finale.[2]

TitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)El Camino: A Breaking Bad MovieVince GilliganVince GilliganOctober 11, 2019 (2019-10-11)2.65[b]
Other media[edit]
Breaking Bad: Original Minisodes (2009–2011)[edit]
Breaking Bad: Original Minisodes is a web series based on the television series Breaking Bad. A total of 17 "minisodes", which are more comedy-oriented than most full episodes, were released over the course of three years.[1]

Season 1 (2009)[edit]
On February 17, 2009, five "mini-episodes" were made available online before the premiere of the show's second season.[56] These five were eventually included with Breaking Bad: The Complete Second Season.[57]

No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal release dateRunning time11"Good Cop / Bad Cop"John ShibanSuzanne PottsFebruary 17, 2009 (2009-02-17)2:53

Hank and Marie celebrate Valentine's Day.
22"Wedding Day"John ShibanKate PowersFebruary 17, 2009 (2009-02-17)4:50

Hank and Walt have a discussion on Hank and Marie's wedding day.
33"TwaüghtHammër"John ShibanGennifer HutchisonFebruary 17, 2009 (2009-02-17)4:13

Jesse explains the origins of his band, TwaüghtHammër.
44"Marie's Confession"John ShibanVince GilliganFebruary 17, 2009 (2009-02-17)2:47

Marie confesses about her shop-lifting.
55"The Break-In"John ShibanGennifer HutchisonFebruary 17, 2009 (2009-02-17)4:49

Walt asks for help from Badger to break into an old woman's house and get his vacuum cleaner back.
Season 2 (2010)[edit]
Before Breaking Bad's third season, ten more webisodes were released, each mostly focused on Saul Goodman.[1]

No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal release dateRunning time61"Live Saul Cam"N/AN/A2010 (2010)5:05

Surveillance camera footage showcasing what Saul does in his free time at his office, including receiving fellatio from a prostitute.
72"Fernando"Peter GouldPeter Gould2010 (2010)1:19

Fernando, accused of stealing a truck, appears in an advert for Saul.
83"Carl"Peter GouldPeter Gould2010 (2010)1:23

Carl's story about how Saul helped him with a problem involving his ex.
94"Wendy"Peter GouldPeter Gould2010 (2010)1:28

Wendy's story about how Saul got her out of jail.
105"Badger"Peter GouldPeter Gould2010 (2010)1:56

Badger recalls how Saul got him out of trouble after he was selling meth.
116"Wayfarer 515"Peter GouldPeter Gould2010 (2010)2:14

The advert that Saul used to appeal to victims of the Wayfarer 515 accident.
127"Letters to Saul"Bob OdenkirkPeter Gould2010 (2010)1:52

Saul opens some letters that he receives from criminals.
138"Tiger Trouble? Better Call Saul!"Peter GouldPeter Gould2010 (2010)1:50

An advert Saul used to appeal to illegal tiger owners.
149"Saul Says: "Sue 'Em Now""Bob OdenkirkPeter Gould2010 (2010)1:37

An advert that Saul used to make people want to come to him to sue companies.
1510"Team S.C.I.E.N.C.E."N/AN/A2010 (2010)3:51

Jesse imagines all of his friends as one team, Team SCIENCE.
Season 3 (2011)[edit]
Additional minisodes were produced before the premiere of Breaking Bad's fourth season; two would eventually be released.[1][58]

No.overallNo. inseasonTitleWritten byOriginal release dateRunning time161"Fatty Fat Fat"Aubrey Husar & Gordon Smith2011 (2011)0:57

Saul appears in an advert which appeals to overweight people to come to him for advice on how to lose weight.
172"Fighting for You"Aubrey Husar & Gordon Smith2011 (2011)1:09

Saul's story about how two boxers came to him for compensation.
Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short (2020)[edit]
Main article: Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short
In conjunction with the television premiere of El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie on AMC, the network released a three-minute short film Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short on its official YouTube account on February 17, 2020.[3]

TitleDirected byWritten byOriginal release dateRunning timeSnow Globe: A Breaking Bad ShortEric SchmidtMelissa NgFebruary 17, 2020 (2020-02-17)2:45

Todd assembles a custom snow globe which includes his and Lydia's likenesses, as he tries to call her to ask her on a date.
Ratings[edit]
Breaking Bad : U.S. viewers per episode (millions)Graphs are unavailable due to technical issues. There is more info on Phabricator and on MediaWiki.org.SeasonEpisode numberAverage1234567891011121311.411.491.081.090.971.071.50–1.2321.661.601.131.291.211.411.201.041.271.191.291.191.501.3031.951.551.331.461.611.641.521.781.611.201.321.191.561.5242.581.971.711.831.751.671.911.981.891.801.551.731.901.875A2.932.292.202.292.482.812.982.78–2.605B5.924.774.854.415.116.376.5810.28–6.04Audience measurement performed by Nielsen Media Research[59]
See also[edit]
List of Better Call Saul episodes
Notes[edit]


^ The data can be calculated by taking the season's total number of viewers (8.61 million) and subtracting the official totals from each of the other season one episodes.

^ 2.65 million viewers on the first day of release and 6.54 million over the first three days.[55]


References[edit]


^ a b c d Harding, Amanda (September 27, 2021). "'Breaking Bad' Has 17 Secret Episodes Most Fans Don't Know About". Showbiz Cheatsheet. Retrieved October 23, 2021.

^ a b c d Itzkoff, Dave (August 24, 2019). "'Breaking Bad' Movie, Starring Aaron Paul, Coming to Netflix in October". The New York Times. Retrieved August 24, 2019.

^ a b Dick, Jeremy (February 17, 2020). "Snow Globe: A Breaking Bad Short Gives Us More of Todd from El Camino". MovieWeb. Archived from the original on February 18, 2020. Retrieved February 18, 2020.

^ O'Connell, Michael (September 30, 2013). "TV Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Finale Smashes Records With 10.3 Million Viewers". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved July 6, 2015.

^ Yanan, Travis (January 29, 2008). "Sunday original finals: 1/27/08". The Programming Insider. Archived from the original on February 1, 2008. Retrieved January 28, 2016.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ Yanan, Travis (February 13, 2008). "Sunday original finals: 2/10/08". The Programming Insider. Archived from the original on February 15, 2008. Retrieved January 28, 2016.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ Yanan, Travis (February 20, 2008). "Sunday original finals: 2/17/08". The Programming Insider. Archived from the original on February 27, 2008. Retrieved January 28, 2016.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ Berman, Marc (January 31, 2010). "Breaking Bad Ratings". Mediaweek. Archived from the original on April 18, 2010. Retrieved July 2, 2015.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ Levin, Gary (March 11, 2008). "Nielsens: 'Runway' finale rules on cable". USA Today. Retrieved November 19, 2013.

^ Seidman, Robert (March 10, 2009). "iCarly, Burn Notice and WWE RAW top cable charts". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 17, 2012. Retrieved June 20, 2011.

^ Crupi, Anthony (April 2, 2009). "AMC Renews Breaking Bad". Mediaweek. Archived from the original on April 4, 2009. Retrieved July 12, 2015.

^ Gorman, Bill (March 30, 2009). "Sunday Ratings: NCAA Tourney Lifts CBS To Victory, Fox Captures Youth Demo". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 18, 2012. Retrieved June 20, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (April 1, 2009). "My Wednesday viewing dwindles with finales of Life on Mars, Damages and Life". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 14, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (April 7, 2009). "Damages season finale draws few, WWE RAW, NCIS lead cable viewing". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 19, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (April 14, 2009). "WWE RAW and Nora Roberts Tribute bookend cable top 20, Rescue Me premieres". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 19, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2011.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending April 19, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 15, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ Seidman, Robert (April 28, 2009). "Updated: WWE RAW, NFL Draft and Yankees / Red Sox Lead Weekly Cable Viewing". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 7, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2011.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending May 3, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 20, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending May 10, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 24, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending May 17, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 26, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending May 24, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 27, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ Levin, Gary (June 5, 2009). "Nielsens: 'Jon & Kate' plus big ratings". USA Today. Archived from the original on September 21, 2013. Retrieved July 3, 2015.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Julia (April 7, 2010). "Breaking Bad Season 3 Ratings". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on November 26, 2010. Retrieved November 10, 2010.

^ Gorman, Bill (June 15, 2010). "Sunday Cable Ratings: True Blood, Breaking Bad, Army Wives, Drop Dead Diva & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on June 20, 2011. Retrieved November 8, 2010.

^ Seidman, Robert (July 19, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Slips, 'Falling Skies' Steady + 'Breaking Bad,' 'Leverage,' 'In Plain Sight,' 'The Glades' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on July 22, 2011. Retrieved July 19, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (July 26, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Rises, 'Falling Skies' Steady + Kardashians, 'Entourage,' 'Breaking Bad,' 'Leverage,' 'The Glades' & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 7, 2012. Retrieved July 26, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (August 2, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood,' Shark Week , 'Falling Skies,' 'In Plain Sight,' 'Breaking Bad,' 'Leverage,' & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 20, 2012. Retrieved August 2, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (August 9, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood,' Kardashians, 'Falling Skies,' 'In Plain Sight,' 'Breaking Bad,' & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 16, 2012. Retrieved August 9, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (August 16, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Rises, Leads Night + Kardashians, 'Entourage,' 'Leverage,' 'Breaking Bad,' & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 16, 2012. Retrieved August 16, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (August 23, 2011). "Sunday Cable: 'True Blood,' 'Kardashians,' 'Entourage' Lead + 'Breaking Bad,' 'Glee Project' & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 16, 2012. Retrieved August 23, 2011.

^ Gorman, Bill (August 30, 2011). "Sunday Cable : 'Video Music Awards,' 'True Blood,' 'Kardashians,' 'Entourage,' 'Breaking Bad,' 'Leverage' & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 15, 2012. Retrieved August 31, 2011.

^ Gorman, Bill (September 7, 2011). "Sunday Cable: 'True Blood' Drops, 'Kardashians' Finale Jumps, 'Entourage,' 'Breaking Bad,' 'Curb' & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 15, 2012. Retrieved September 7, 2011.

^ Gorman, Bill (September 13, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Rises, Leads Night + Kardashians, 'Entourage,' 'Leverage,' 'Breaking Bad,' & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 30, 2012. Retrieved September 13, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (September 20, 2011). "Sunday Cable: 'Real Housewives of New Jersey' Up, 'Breaking Bad' Down + 'Teen Dads,' 'Ice Road Truckers' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 15, 2012. Retrieved September 20, 2011.

^ Gorman, Bill (September 27, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Jeff Dunham' Tops Night, As 'Boardwalk Empire' Premiere Drops; + 'Breaking Bad,' 'Sister Wives,' 'Ice Road Truckers' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on June 25, 2012. Retrieved September 27, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (October 4, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: Cards/Phillies, New Jersey 'Housewives' Top Night + 'Boardwalk Empire,' 'Hung,' 'Breaking Bad' & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on July 7, 2012. Retrieved October 5, 2011.

^ Gorman, Bill (October 11, 2011). "Sunday Cable Ratings: Nothing Keeps Up With Kardashians; Plus 'Housewives NJ' Finale, 'Boardwalk Empire,' 'Breaking Bad,' 'Dexter' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on July 1, 2012. Retrieved October 11, 2011.

^ Kondolojy, Amanda (July 17, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Beats 'Breaking Bad' Premiere, + 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians', 'Very Funny News', 'Real Housewives of New Jersey', 'Falling Skies' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 20, 2012. Retrieved July 17, 2012.

^ Bibel, Sara (July 24, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Wins Night, 'Breaking Bad', 'Falling Skies', 'Army Wives', 'The Newsroom', 'Longmire' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 28, 2012. Retrieved July 24, 2012.

^ Bibel, Sara (July 31, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Wins Night, 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians', 'Breaking Bad', 'The Newsroom', 'Political Animals', 'Longmire' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 18, 2012. Retrieved July 31, 2012.

^ Bibel, Sara (August 7, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings:'True Blood' Wins Night, 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians', 'Falling Skies', 'Breaking Bad', 'Army Wives', 'Leverage'& More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 26, 2012. Retrieved August 7, 2012.

^ Kondolojy, Amanda (August 14, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Beats 'Comedy Central Roast of Roseanne' + 'Falling Skies', NASCAR, 'Army Wives' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 17, 2012. Retrieved August 14, 2012.

^ Bibel, Sara (August 21, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Wins Night, 'Fallling Skies', 'Breaking Bad', 'Army Wives', 'The Newsroom','Leverage' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 24, 2012. Retrieved August 21, 2012.

^ Kondolojy, Amanda (August 28, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'True Blood' Finale Dominates, + 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians', 'Breaking Bad', 'Real Housewives of NJ', 'Army Wives' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 2, 2012. Retrieved August 28, 2012.

^ Bibel, Sara (September 5, 2012). "Sunday Cable Ratings: NASCAR Wins Night, 'Breaking Bad', 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians', 'Leverage', 'Hell on Wheels', 'Married to Jonas', & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 8, 2012. Retrieved September 5, 2012.

^ Bibel, Sara (August 13, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Night, 'True Blood', 'Low Winter Sun', 'Devious Maids', 'Dexter', 'The Newsroom' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 16, 2013. Retrieved August 13, 2013.

^ Kondolojy, Amanda (August 20, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Night + 'True Blood', 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians', NASCAR, 'Real Housewives of New Jersey' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 23, 2013. Retrieved August 20, 2013.

^ Kondolojy, Amanda (August 27, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'MTV Video Music Awards' Dominates + 'Breaking Bad', 'Real Housewives of NJ', 'Catfish', 'Dexter' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 30, 2013. Retrieved August 27, 2013.

^ Bibel, Sara (September 4, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Night, NASCAR, 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians', 'Total Divas', 'Sister Wives' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 7, 2013. Retrieved September 4, 2013.

^ Kondolojy, Amanda (September 10, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Night + NFL Countdown 'Dexter', 'Real Housewives of New Jersey' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 12, 2013. Retrieved September 10, 2013.

^ Bibel, Sara (September 17, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Night, 'Real Housewives', 'Dexter, 'Devious Maids', 'Boardwalk Empire', 'The Newsroom' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 20, 2013. Retrieved September 17, 2013.

^ Kondolojy, Amanda (September 24, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Night + 'Dexter' Series Finale, 'Devious Maids', 'Real Housewives of New Jersey' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 27, 2013. Retrieved September 24, 2013.

^ Bibel, Sara (October 1, 2013). "Sunday Cable Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Wins Big, 'Talking Bad', 'Homeland', 'Boardwalk Empire','Masters of Sex' & More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 24, 2013. Retrieved October 1, 2013.

^ Mitovich, Matt Webb (January 7, 2020). "Breaking Bad Movie Gets AMC Premiere Date, Following a Full Series Marathon". TVLine. Retrieved January 7, 2020.

^ Porter, Rick (October 17, 2019). "'El Camino' Draws Solid Opening-Weekend Viewing, Nielsen Says". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved October 17, 2019.

^ Snierson, Dan (February 19, 2009). "'Breaking Bad' minisodes: Something to satisfy your craving". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved January 11, 2024.

^ Liebman, Martin (March 3, 2010). "Breaking Bad: The Complete Second Season Blu-ray". Blu-ray.com. Retrieved January 9, 2024.

^ "'Breaking Bad' Won't Be Back Until July 2011: Plans For Mini-Episodes Online". Deadline Hollywood. August 4, 2010. Retrieved February 23, 2011.

^ 

For the first season, see Crupi, Anthony (September 30, 2013). "Breaking Bad Finale Draws 10.3 Million Viewers". Adweek. Archived from the original on September 30, 2013. Retrieved June 15, 2015.


For the second season, see Hibberd, James (July 16, 2012). "'Breaking Bad' returns to record premiere ratings". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on September 20, 2015. Retrieved June 16, 2015.


For the third season, see "2010 Year in Review/2011 Year in Preview: AMC". The Futon Critic. January 24, 2011. Retrieved June 15, 2015.


For the fourth season, see "AMC's "Breaking Bad" Breaks Records by Growing More Than Any Other Season 4 Drama in Basic Cable History for Adults 18–49". The Futon Critic. October 10, 2011. Retrieved June 15, 2015.


For the fifth season, see "Breaking Bad: Season Five Ratings". TV Series Finale. October 2, 2013. Retrieved June 14, 2015.



External links[edit]
Breaking Bad at IMDb
vteBreaking BadEpisodesSeason 1
"Pilot"
"Cat's in the Bag..."
"...And the Bag's in the River"
"Cancer Man"
"Gray Matter"
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"
Season 2
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
"Grilled"
"Bit by a Dead Bee"
"Down"
"Breakage"
"Peekaboo"
"Negro y Azul"
"Better Call Saul"
"4 Days Out"
"Over"
"Mandala"
"Phoenix"
"ABQ"
Season 3
"No Más"
"Caballo sin Nombre"
"I.F.T."
"Green Light"
"Más"
"Sunset"
"One Minute"
"I See You"
"Kafkaesque"
"Fly"
"Abiquiu"
"Half Measures"
"Full Measure"
Season 4
"Box Cutter"
"Thirty-Eight Snub"
"Open House"
"Bullet Points"
"Shotgun"
"Cornered"
"Problem Dog"
"Hermanos"
"Bug"
"Salud"
"Crawl Space"
"End Times"
"Face Off"
Season 5Part 1
"Live Free or Die"
"Madrigal"
"Hazard Pay"
"Fifty-One"
"Dead Freight"
"Buyout"
"Say My Name"
"Gliding Over All"
Part 2
"Blood Money"
"Buried"
"Confessions"
"Rabid Dog"
"To'hajiilee"
"Ozymandias"
"Granite State"
"Felina"
Characters
Walter White
Skyler White
Jesse Pinkman
Hank Schrader
Marie Schrader
Walter White Jr.
Saul Goodman
Gus Fring
Mike Ehrmantraut
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Better Call Saul
"Breaking Bad"
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Metástasis
Talking Bad
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Baby Blue"
Faking Bad
Spiralix heisenbergi
"What Animated Women Want"
"Pickle Rick"
"Plug Walk"
"Celebrity Booze: The Ultimate Cash Grab"

 Category
 WikiQuote
 WikiCommons





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_Breaking_Bad_episodes&oldid=1220527847"



First season of the AMC crime drama television series
Season of television series
Breaking BadSeason 1Season 1 DVD coverStarring
Bryan Cranston
Anna Gunn
Aaron Paul
Dean Norris
Betsy Brandt
RJ Mitte
No. of episodes7ReleaseOriginal networkAMCOriginal releaseJanuary 20 (2008-01-20) –March 9, 2008 (2008-03-09)Season chronologyNext →Season 2List of episodes
The first season of the American television drama series Breaking Bad premiered on January 20, 2008 and concluded on March 9, 2008. It consisted of seven episodes, each running approximately 48 minutes in length, except the pilot episode which runs for approximately 58 minutes. AMC broadcast the first season on Sundays at 10:00 pm in the United States. The first season was originally going to consist of nine episodes, but was reduced to seven by the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. The complete first season was released on Region 1 DVD on February 24, 2009[1] and Region A Blu-ray on March 16, 2010.[2]


Cast[edit]
See also: List of Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul characters
Main[edit]
Bryan Cranston as Walter "Walt" White, a high-school chemistry teacher in Albuquerque, New Mexico. After being diagnosed with Stage 3 lung cancer and given two years to live, Walt enters into a partnership with a former student to cook crystal meth as a means of supporting his family.
Anna Gunn as Skyler White, Walt's pregnant wife and a struggling creative writer.
Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman, a small-time drug dealer and former student of Walt who partners with him to cook and sell crystal meth.
Dean Norris as Hank Schrader, Walt and Skyler's brother-in-law and a DEA agent.
Betsy Brandt as Marie Schrader, Skyler's sister and Hank's wife. She is a radiologic technologist.
RJ Mitte as Walter White Jr., Walt and Skyler's teenaged son who has cerebral palsy.
Recurring[edit]
Steven Michael Quezada as Steven Gomez, Hank's partner at the DEA.
Carmen Serano as Principal Carmen Molina, the principal of J.P. Wynne High School.
Max Arciniega as Krazy-8 Molina, an associate of Jesse's.
Charles Baker as Skinny Pete, one of Jesse's friends.
Raymond Cruz as Tuco Salamanca, a drug kingpin associated with the cartel.
Jessica Hecht as Gretchen Schwartz, Walt's former fiancee and business partner
Guest[edit]
Tess Harper as Mrs. Pinkman, Jesse's mother.
Matt L. Jones as Brandon "Badger" Mayhew, one of Jesse's friends.
Rodney Rush as Combo, one of Jesse's friends.
Marius Stan as Bogdan Wolynetz, the owner of A1A Car Wash, where Walt was formerly employed.
John Koyama as Emilio Koyama, another associate of Jesse's who is caught in a drug bust by the DEA.
Episodes[edit]
Main article: List of Breaking Bad episodes
No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)11"Pilot"Vince GilliganVince GilliganJanuary 20, 2008 (2008-01-20)1.41[3]

Walter White celebrates his 50th birthday breakfast with his wife, Skyler, and their teenage son, Walter Jr, before heading off to his job as a high-school chemistry teacher. Frequent coughing fits result in Walt passing out at his second job at a car wash. Later, he is diagnosed with Stage 3 terminal lung cancer. Walt does a ride-along on a methamphetamine lab  raid with his brother-in-law, DEA Agent Hank Schrader. DEA agents apprehend a cook/dealer named Emilio. Walt, waiting in the car, spots his former student Jesse Pinkman escaping the raid through a neighbor's window. Walt tracks down Jesse to propose a partnership wherein Walt cooks crystal meth and Jesse manages sales and distribution. They begin cooking crystal meth in a remote area of the desert in a recreational vehicle. Walt's skill in chemistry results in a pure, highly valuable product. Jesse approaches Krazy-8, a local distributor and cousin to Emilio, to arrange distribution. At a meetup with Walt, Emilio recognizes him from the DEA raid. A panicked Jesse tells Walt to run but knocks himself unconscious. Knowing the dealers intend to kill them both, Walt pretends to teach Emilio and Krazy-8 the crystal meth recipe before poisoning them with phosphine gas and driving off.
22"Cat's in the Bag..."Adam BernsteinVince GilliganJanuary 27, 2008 (2008-01-27)1.49[4]

Returning to Albuquerque, Walt and Jesse try to dispose of the two bodies in the RV, which becomes increasingly complicated when Krazy-8 disappears. Driving back to Jesse's from work, Walt discovers a barely-conscious Krazy-8 wandering the streets of Jesse's neighborhood, returning him to the house and restraining him with a bicycle lock. Walt continues to procrastinate killing Krazy-8, instead providing him with food, water, and a means to relieve himself. Meanwhile, Skyler grows suspicious of Walt's recent behavior and, at an ultrasound appointment, questions him about his recent phone call with Jesse. Walt covers by telling her that Jesse sells him marijuana. Skyler visits Jesse and threatens to call Hank if Jesse contacts Walt about marijuana again. Jesse disposes of Emilio's dead body using hydrofluoric acid as instructed by Walt, but he elects to use his bathtub instead of Walt's suggestion of a plastic bin, resulting in the acid eating through the bathtub floor and leaving a huge mess of dissolved body parts. Two children playing in the desert area where the RV had been find a gas mask that Walt and Jesse accidentally left behind.
33"...And the Bag's in the River"Adam BernsteinVince GilliganFebruary 10, 2008 (2008-02-10)1.08[5]

Skyler's sister, Marie, mistakenly believes that Walter Jr. is smoking marijuana and asks Hank to scare him straight. Hank takes Walt Jr. to a rundown motel to teach him about gateway drugs. Walt and Jesse clean up the remains of Emilio, and Walt is torn between whether to keep Krazy-8 alive or kill him. While bringing Krazy-8 food, Walt collapses while descending the stairs and smashes the plate on the floor. Upon waking up, Walt reveals to Krazy-8 that he has lung cancer—the first person he tells—and they start sharing the unexpected things they have in common. Krazy-8 also sows mistrust against Jesse, warning Walt about working with a drug addict. Walt decides to release Krazy-8, but while disposing of the shards of the broken plate, he sees that a shard is missing, and realizes that Krazy-8 has concealed it to use as a weapon. When Walt confronts Krazy-8, Krazy-8 attacks him; Walt strangles and kills him with the bicycle lock restraint. Walt lies and tells Skyler he was working late at the car wash, but she has already talked to his boss and knows he quit weeks ago. That night, when Walter gets home, he tells Skyler that they need to talk.
44"Cancer Man"Jim McKayVince GilliganFebruary 17, 2008 (2008-02-17)1.09[6]

As Jesse and Walt's meth begins to spread in Albuquerque, Hank starts looking for the new drug kingpin, unaware that it's Walt. At a family barbecue, Walt reveals to Walt Jr., Marie, and Hank that he has cancer. Hank promises Walt that he will always take care of his family. Walt Jr. becomes upset that Walt is acting like everything is normal. Jesse becomes paranoid that law enforcement is after him, and he visits his family's house; Jesse's parents are disappointed and worried to see him in such a state. Jesse finds out that his younger brother, who is very successful in sports and music, is smoking marijuana to deal with the intense pressure from their parents. Jesse covers for him but is forced to leave his parents' house, as they believe the marijuana is his. Jesse visits Walt to try and convince him they should continue cooking, but Walt tells him never to try to see him again. Walt and Skyler visit an oncologist who says Walt's cancer is treatable. Skyler is hopeful, but Walt does not think getting treatment is financially feasible.
55"Gray Matter"Tricia BrockPatty LinFebruary 24, 2008 (2008-02-24)0.97[a]

Jesse becomes frustrated that he cannot secure stable employment outside of the drug world. Walt and Skyler attend the birthday party of Elliott Schwartz, Walt's former colleague and current CEO of Gray Matter Technologies, where Walt also reunites with Gretchen Schwartz, his former fiancée and current wife and business partner of Elliott. After reminiscing with Walt about their time as graduate students, Elliott offers him a job at Gray Matter. Realizing that Skyler must have told Elliott about his cancer diagnosis, Walt declines, believing it to be charity. Jesse attempts to replicate Walt's meth recipe with his friend Badger but is unsuccessful. Walt Jr. is busted by an undercover cop for trying to purchase beer as a minor and calls Hank to pick him up. Hank feels guilty about Walt Jr. not contacting his own father, but does not lecture Walt Jr. Walt's family attempts an intervention to persuade him to undergo chemotherapy. Marie says everyone should let Walt make the decision on his own, to Skyler's dismay. Walt insists that he needs the agency to make a choice for himself and that he does not want to live his last days miserable with treatment. The next morning, he relents and tells Skyler he will accept Gretchen and Elliott's offer to cover the cost of his treatment. Gretchen calls Walt to discuss their offer but tells her the assistance isn't needed, lying that his insurance covers treatment after all. He goes to Jesse's house and asks to resume their partnership.
66"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"Bronwen HughesGeorge MastrasMarch 2, 2008 (2008-03-02)1.07[7]

Walt undergoes his first chemotherapy session. Walt and Jesse continue their agreement in which Walt will cook the meth while Jesse handles sales. When Walt removes his shirt during a cooking session, Jesse recognizes the chemotherapy marks on Walt's chest and deduces that he has lung cancer. Meanwhile, Hank ties the recovered respirator to Walt's high school's chemistry lab. Hank falsely arrests the kindly school janitor on charges of stealing equipment, who has a criminal record for drug possession and had a small amount of marijuana in his car. Walt shaves his head when he discovers that his hair is falling out. When their initial batch of meth only yields $2,600, Walt insists they need to ramp up production. Jesse's friend Skinny Pete introduces him to the distributor who replaced Krazy-8: psychopathic drug lord Tuco Salamanca. When Jesse demands up-front payment for the meth, Tuco severely beats him and steals the meth. Walt later confronts Tuco on his own, causing an explosion in his hideout and forces him to pay for the stolen meth. Impressed, Tuco agrees to work with Walt.
77"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"Tim HunterPeter GouldMarch 9, 2008 (2008-03-09)1.50[8]

Walt and Jesse face production difficulties when they are not able to procure enough pseudoephedrine pills. Jesse, who is now living in the RV, puts his house on the market. Skyler has a baby shower at which Marie gives her a diamond tiara for the baby. Skyler decides to return the tiara given to her by Marie, only to be detained at the store and informed that it had been stolen; when she confronts Marie, Marie flatly denies stealing it. Walt and Jesse break into a warehouse and steal a large barrel of methylamine to produce larger amount of meth by an alternative cooking process. They deliver the promised amount of meth (4 lbs) to Tuco and his associates, No-Doze and Gonzo. When No-Doze makes an offhanded remark to Walt, Tuco becomes enraged and savagely beats him in front of the horrified Walt and Jesse before driving away.
Music[edit]
Breaking Bad's original score is composed by Dave Porter. The show also uses music from other recording artists with music supervision by Thomas Golubić. Select songs from Season 1 are featured on the Breaking Bad Soundtrack available through iTunes and Amazon.[9]

Home video releases[edit]
The first season was released on DVD in Region 1 on February 24, 2009,[1] in Region 2 on December 14, 2009,[10] and in Region 4 on July 8, 2009.[11] It was released on Blu-ray in Region A on March 16, 2010.[2] Special features on the DVD and Blu-ray include two audio commentaries—"Pilot" by creator Vince Gilligan, cast members Bryan Cranston, Anna Gunn, Aaron Paul, Dean Norris, Betsy Brandt, and RJ Mitte, and editor Lynne Willingham and "Crazy Handful of Nothin'" by Vince Gilligan, Bryan Cranston, Anna Gunn, Aaron Paul, Dean Norris, and writer George Mastras; "The Making of Breaking Bad"; "Inside Breaking Bad"; AMC Shootout – Interview with Vince Gilligan, Bryan Cranston, and Mark Johnson; deleted scenes; screen tests; and Vince Gilligan's photo gallery.[12]

Reception[edit]
Reviews[edit]
On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the series' first season has an approval rating of 86% based on 43 reviews, with an average rating of 8.3/10. The site's critics consensus reads: "Though at times it feels forced and its imagery can be gruesome, Breaking Bad is darkly gripping and features a strong sympathetic lead in Bryan Cranston."[13] The first season of Breaking Bad also received generally favorable reviews on Metacritic, scoring a 73 out of 100.[14] New York Post critic Linda Stasi praised the series, particularly the acting of Cranston and Paul, stating "Cranston and Paul are so good, it's astounding. I'd say the two have created great chemistry, but I'm ashamed to say such a cheap thing."[15] Robert Bianco of USA Today also praised Cranston and Paul, exclaiming "There is humor in the show, mostly in Walt's efforts to impose scholarly logic on the business and on his idiot apprentice, a role Paul plays very well. But even their scenes lean toward the suspenseful, as the duo learns that killing someone, even in self-defense, is ugly, messy work."[16]

Awards and nominations[edit]
The first season received numerous awards and nominations, including four Primetime Emmy Award nominations with two wins. Bryan Cranston won for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series and Lynne Willingham won for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Drama Series. Vince Gilligan was nominated for Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series for the pilot episode and John Toll was nominated for Outstanding Cinematography for a One-Hour Series for the pilot episode. Cranston also won a Satellite Award for Best Actor in a Drama Series. The series was nominated for Outstanding New Program of the Year at the Television Critics Association Awards. The series also received three Writers Guild of America Award nominations with one win. It was nominated for Best New Series, Patty Lin was nominated for Best Episodic Drama for "Gray Matter", and Vince Gilligan won for Best Episodic Drama for his work on the pilot.[17]



Year

Award

Category

Recipient

Result

Ref.


2008
Primetime Emmy Awards
Outstanding Actor in a Drama Series
Bryan Cranston  for "Pilot"
Won
[18]


Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series
Vince Gilligan  for "Pilot"
Nominated


Outstanding Cinematography for a Single-Camera Series (One Hour)
John Toll  for "Pilot"
Nominated


Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing - Drama Series
Lynne Willingham  for "Pilot"
Won


Notes[edit]


^ The data can be calculated by taking the season's total number of viewers (8.61 million) and subtracting the official totals from each of the other season one episodes.


References[edit]


^ a b "Breaking Bad - The Complete First Season (2008)". Amazon.com. Retrieved March 22, 2010.

^ a b Lambert, David (January 15, 2010). "Breaking Bad - Slight Delay for Season 2 DVD and Blu-ray (and also Season 1 Blu-ray)". TVShowsOnDVD.com. Archived from the original on October 10, 2012. Retrieved March 22, 2010.

^ O'Connell, Michael (September 30, 2013). "TV Ratings: 'Breaking Bad' Finale Smashes Records With 10.3 Million Viewers". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved July 6, 2015.

^ Yanan, Travis (January 29, 2008). "Sunday original finals: 1/27/08". The Programming Insider. Archived from the original on February 1, 2008. Retrieved January 28, 2016.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ Yanan, Travis (February 13, 2008). "Sunday original finals: 2/10/08". The Programming Insider. Archived from the original on February 15, 2008. Retrieved January 28, 2016.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ Yanan, Travis (February 20, 2008). "Sunday original finals: 2/17/08". The Programming Insider. Archived from the original on February 27, 2008. Retrieved January 28, 2016.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ Berman, Marc (January 31, 2010). "Breaking Bad Ratings". Mediaweek. Archived from the original on April 18, 2010. Retrieved July 2, 2015.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ Levin, Gary (March 11, 2008). "Nielsens: 'Runway' finale rules on cable". USA Today. Retrieved November 19, 2013.

^ "Music From Breaking Bad Season 1". AMCTV.com. January 18, 2008. Archived from the original on May 11, 2012. Retrieved May 8, 2012.

^ "Breaking Bad - Season 1". Amazon.co.uk. Retrieved November 18, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad - The Complete 1st Season (2 Disc Set)". EzyDVD. Archived from the original on March 2, 2011. Retrieved November 18, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad - 1st Season DVD Set Gets Detailed in the Studio's Press Release". TVShowsOnDVD.com. December 16, 2008. Archived from the original on July 12, 2010. Retrieved November 18, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 1 (2008)". Rotten Tomatoes. Retrieved June 21, 2020.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 1". Metacritic. Retrieved November 13, 2010.

^ Stasi, Linda (January 17, 2008). "TOUR DE PANTS, Breaking Bad is Not Your Typical Drama". New York Post. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Bianco, Robert (January 17, 2008). "'Breaking' is far from bad; it's fantastic". USA Today. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ "Awards for "Breaking Bad" (2008)". IMDB. Retrieved November 13, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad - Emmy Awards, Nominations and Wins". Emmys.com. Retrieved April 10, 2020.


External links[edit]
Breaking Bad at IMDb
vteBreaking BadEpisodesSeason 1
"Pilot"
"Cat's in the Bag..."
"...And the Bag's in the River"
"Cancer Man"
"Gray Matter"
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"
Season 2
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
"Grilled"
"Bit by a Dead Bee"
"Down"
"Breakage"
"Peekaboo"
"Negro y Azul"
"Better Call Saul"
"4 Days Out"
"Over"
"Mandala"
"Phoenix"
"ABQ"
Season 3
"No Más"
"Caballo sin Nombre"
"I.F.T."
"Green Light"
"Más"
"Sunset"
"One Minute"
"I See You"
"Kafkaesque"
"Fly"
"Abiquiu"
"Half Measures"
"Full Measure"
Season 4
"Box Cutter"
"Thirty-Eight Snub"
"Open House"
"Bullet Points"
"Shotgun"
"Cornered"
"Problem Dog"
"Hermanos"
"Bug"
"Salud"
"Crawl Space"
"End Times"
"Face Off"
Season 5Part 1
"Live Free or Die"
"Madrigal"
"Hazard Pay"
"Fifty-One"
"Dead Freight"
"Buyout"
"Say My Name"
"Gliding Over All"
Part 2
"Blood Money"
"Buried"
"Confessions"
"Rabid Dog"
"To'hajiilee"
"Ozymandias"
"Granite State"
"Felina"
Characters
Walter White
Skyler White
Jesse Pinkman
Hank Schrader
Marie Schrader
Walter White Jr.
Saul Goodman
Gus Fring
Mike Ehrmantraut
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Better Call Saul
"Breaking Bad"
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Metástasis
Talking Bad
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Baby Blue"
Faking Bad
Spiralix heisenbergi
"What Animated Women Want"
"Pickle Rick"
"Plug Walk"
"Celebrity Booze: The Ultimate Cash Grab"

 Category
 WikiQuote
 WikiCommons





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Breaking_Bad_season_1&oldid=1218734224"



Second season of the AMC crime drama television series
Season of television series
Breaking BadSeason 2Season 2 DVD coverStarring
Bryan Cranston
Anna Gunn
Aaron Paul
Dean Norris
Betsy Brandt
RJ Mitte
No. of episodes13ReleaseOriginal networkAMCOriginal releaseMarch 8 (2009-03-08) –May 31, 2009 (2009-05-31)Season chronology← PreviousSeason 1Next →Season 3List of episodes
The second season of the American television drama series Breaking Bad premiered on March 8, 2009, and concluded on May 31, 2009. It consisted of 13 episodes, each running approximately 47 minutes in length. AMC broadcast the second season on Sundays at 10:00 pm in the United States. The complete second season was released on Region 1 DVD and Region A Blu-ray on March 16, 2010.[1]


Cast[edit]
See also: List of Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul characters
Main[edit]
Bryan Cranston as Walter "Walt" White, a terminally ill high-school chemistry teacher in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Walt runs a methamphetamine business with his partner Jesse Pinkman.
Anna Gunn as Skyler White, Walt's pregnant wife and a bookkeeper for Beneke Fabricators.
Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman, a former student of Walt's and his current business partner.
Dean Norris as Hank Schrader, Walt and Skyler's brother-in-law and a DEA agent.
Betsy Brandt as Marie Schrader, Skyler's sister and Hank's wife. She is a radiologic technologist.
RJ Mitte as Walter White Jr., Walt and Skyler's teenage son, who has cerebral palsy.
Recurring[edit]
Krysten Ritter as Jane Margolis, Jesse's neighbor, landlord, and later girlfriend who is in recovery from drug addiction.
Steven Michael Quezada as Steven Gomez, Hank's partner at the DEA.
Charles Baker as Skinny Pete, one of Jesse's friends who helps sell Walt and Jesse's meth.
Christopher Cousins as Ted Beneke, Skyler's boss at Beneke Fabricators and later, lover.
Matt L. Jones as Badger, one of Jesse's friends who helps sell Walt and Jesse's meth.
Bob Odenkirk as Saul Goodman, a sleazy criminal lawyer who becomes involved with Walt and Jesse's business.
John de Lancie as Donald Margolis, Jane's father and Jesse's landlord who also works as an air traffic controller.
Tom Kiesche as Clovis, Badger's cousin and junkyard owner.
Rodney Rush as Combo, one of Jesse's friends who helps sell Walt and Jesse's meth.
Michael Shamus Wiles as George Merkert, the head of the Albuquerque DEA office and Hank and Steve's boss.
Raymond Cruz as Tuco Salamanca, a wrathful drug kingpin and formerly the distributor of Walt and Jesse's meth.
Giancarlo Esposito as Gus Fring, the owner of the fictional fast-food chain, Los Pollos Hermanos. He is secretly a drug kingpin associated with the Cartel and becomes the new distributor of Walt and Jesse's meth.
Tess Harper as Diane Pinkman, Jesse's mother.
Mark Margolis as Hector Salamanca, Tuco's uncle and a former drug kingpin. He is paraplegic and non-verbal, only communicating using a bell.
Sam McMurray as Dr. Victor Bravenec, one of Walt's surgeons.
Carmen Serano as Principal Carmen Molina, the principal of J.P. Wynne High School, the school that Walter Jr. attends and Walt's place of work.
Guest[edit]
Jeremiah Bitsui as Victor, Gus' loyal henchman.
Nigel Gibbs as APD Detective Tim Roberts, a homicide investigator for the Albuquerque Police Department and one of Hank's colleagues.
Jessica Hecht as Gretchen Schwartz, Walt's old friend and former fiancee.
Tina Parker as Francesca Liddy, Saul's secretary.
Danny Trejo as Tortuga, a member of the Cartel who's working as an informant for the DEA.
Jonathan Banks as Mike Ehrmantraut, a "cleaner" and one of Saul's associates who also works for Gus.
Episodes[edit]
See also: List of Breaking Bad episodes
The titles of the first, fourth, tenth, and thirteenth episodes form a sentence that reveals an event that takes place in the season finale (Seven Thirty-Seven Down Over ABQ).[2]

No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)81"Seven Thirty-Seven"Bryan CranstonJ. RobertsMarch 8, 2009 (2009-03-08)1.66[3]

The opening scene in black-and-white film shows a partially burned stuffed animal floating in the White's backyard pool. Tuco and Gonzo return immediately to the junkyard meetup site asking Walt to resuscitate No-Doze, who has died from his injuries. Gonzo hides the body under a car. Fearful of Tuco's violent and unpredictable manner, and noticing an ominous black SUV outside their respective homes, Walt develops a plan to poison Tuco with untraceable ricin. Hank reviews the security surveillance footage of the methylamine warehouse break-in. Though he does not recognize Walt and Jesse, he can tell they are inexperienced thieves. Hank and the DEA find the bodies of both Gonzo and No-Doze in the junkyard after Gonzo accidentally bled out, which sets off a manhunt for Tuco. After receiving a picture of Gonzo's body from a jesting Hank, Walt mistakenly believes Gonzo was murdered by Tuco and becomes convinced that Tuco will come after him and Jesse next. Skyler tells Hank about Marie's shoplifting, and learns she has already been receiving therapy for kleptomania, though Marie still refuses to acknowledge the tiara theft. Seeing headlights outside his home window, Walt hurriedly leaves a confused Skyler to investigate, where he finds Jesse being held at gunpoint by Tuco. Tuco orders Walt to get in the car and they drive away.
92"Grilled"Charles HaidGeorge MastrasMarch 15, 2009 (2009-03-15)1.60[4]

Tuco takes Walt and Jesse at gunpoint to a remote desert hideout, where he takes care of his sick uncle Hector Salamanca, a former drug kingpin who is now incapacitated due to a stroke and can only communicate with a bell. Tuco explains that Hank and the DEA have rolled his entire organization. Unaware of Gonzo's death, Tuco believes Gonzo has ratted him out and becomes extremely agitated. Tuco voices his plan to take Walt to Mexico and run a covert cooking operation in the jungle. After several unsuccessful attempts to have Tuco ingest the ricin, Hector warns Tuco using his bell that Walt and Jesse are not to be trusted. Enraged, Tuco attacks and attempts to kill Jesse, but Jesse manages to shoot him in the torso and escape. Meanwhile, Skyler enlists Hank to help track down Walt. After Marie reveals that Walt has a second cell phone, Skyler mentions that Jesse had been supplying Walt with marijuana. After visiting Jesse's mother, Hank tracks Jesse's car to Tuco's hideout and gets into a shootout with Tuco, whom he kills in self-defense. Seeing Hank from a distance, Walt and Jesse bury the gun and run off into the desert.
103"Bit by a Dead Bee"Terry McDonoughPeter GouldMarch 22, 2009 (2009-03-22)1.13[5]

Walt forms a plan to explain his and Jesse's disappearance and they split up to hitchhike back to the city. Alone, Walt goes to a supermarket, removes his clothes, and wanders around the aisles, feigning a disoriented state. He is hospitalized and claims to have no memory of the past several days. Walt is scheduled to undergo ongoing psychiatric evaluation, but is ultimately released after telling his psychiatrist that he simply wanted to be alone and faked his "fugue state" to cover this from his family. Meanwhile, Jesse, who is now a fugitive, returns to his house and, with Badger's help, packs all of his lab equipment into the RV and arranges it to be towed. He then allows the DEA to find him in a motel room with a prostitute, with whom he claims to have been shacked up all weekend. Hank brings in Hector to identify him, but the old man refuses to cooperate with the authorities. Jesse is released, but the DEA confiscates all of his money. Walt convinces Jesse to continue cooking meth, saying that nothing has changed.
114"Down"John DahlSam CatlinMarch 29, 2009 (2009-03-29)1.29[6]

While things have blown over with their disappearance, Jesse has no money and Walt cannot leave the house without Skyler wondering where he is. Jesse's parents, who own his house, order him to vacate, citing Hank's visit as the final straw. Now homeless and having his motorbike stolen, Jesse tracks down his hidden RV and spends the night in it. Suspicious of Walt's actions, including his denial of having a second cell phone, Skyler begins going out all day and refuses to tell Walt of her whereabouts. An increasingly frustrated Walt continues to deny any wrongdoing. After stealing his RV from the impound lot, Jesse arrives at Walt's home and convinces him to give him half of their remaining money.
125"Breakage"Johan RenckMoira Walley-BeckettApril 5, 2009 (2009-04-05)1.21[7]

Walt continues his treatment and his condition improves, but he is concerned about the growing medical bills, which include the hospital visit in his "fugue state". Jesse begins to re-establish his life, paying off his debts and getting a new place to live. He develops an interest in his new next-door neighbor and landlord, Jane Margolis. Hank and the DEA come across the name Heisenberg, but are not sure if he is real or just an urban legend. After his shootout with Tuco, Hank is promoted and appointed to a tristate drug task force, but experiences panic attacks. Skyler and Marie reconcile. Walt and Jesse resume cooking. Jesse is not keen on selling on the street and suggests he and Walt take over Tuco's role as a distributor to increase their profits; he recruits his friends Badger, Skinny Pete, and Combo as dealers. Skinny Pete is ripped off by a drug-addicted couple. Unimpressed, Walt tells Jesse that unless he does something about it, they will develop a reputation for being easy marks.
136"Peekaboo"Peter MedakJ. Roberts & Vince GilliganApril 12, 2009 (2009-04-12)1.41[8]

Walt returns to work. Gretchen Schwartz drops by the White's home where Skyler expresses her gratitude for paying for Walt's treatment. Gretchen does not reveal the truth to Skyler, but privately expresses her shock and anger to Walt, who bitterly tells her to mind her own business and blames her and Elliott for profiting off of his research and cutting him out. In response, Gretchen calls Skyler and tells her that she and Elliott can no longer pay for Walt's treatment. Walt covers by telling Skyler that Gretchen and Elliott are insolvent, which Skyler believes. Meanwhile, Jesse tracks down the couple - a man named Spooge and his female partner - who ripped off Skinny Pete, but finds only their young and heavily neglected son at the house. Jesse makes the boy food and watches TV with him until the couple returns home with a stolen ATM. They incapacitate Jesse. Later, the female addict crushes Spooge's skull under the ATM after he repeatedly insults her. Horrified, Jesse recovers the meth and cash from the ATM, calls the police, wraps the boy in a blanket on the front porch, and flees the scene.
147"Negro y Azul"Felix AlcalaJohn ShibanApril 19, 2009 (2009-04-19)1.20[9]

Walt has trouble getting in touch with Jesse, who has been staying at home since his encounter with Spooge. Jesse is also not providing product to his dealers, so Walt arranges to deliver it. He learns that the word on the street is that Jesse killed Spooge and, due to his new reputation as a cold-blooded killer, they are having no problem at all collecting payment. Walt decides the time has come to expand their territory and put Jesse's new reputation to good use. Skyler seeks a job and is rehired as a bookkeeper by her previous boss, Ted Beneke. Jesse and Jane continue to bond. Hank struggles to fit in at his new job in El Paso where he is perceived as a "gringo". During an investigation, Hank's task force comes across the severed head of an informant mounted on a tortoise, which causes him to feel sick and run to a nearby vehicle. He is mocked by the other agents before an explosive strapped to the tortoise goes off, killing or injuring several DEA agents, while Hank remains unharmed.
158"Better Call Saul"Terry McDonoughPeter GouldApril 26, 2009 (2009-04-26)1.04[10]

Hank suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder after the bombing in El Paso. Walt gives Hank a motivational speech to help cheer him up. Jesse and Jane have begun a sexual relationship; Jesse learns that Jane is in recovery from addiction. Walt and Jesse face yet another problem when Badger is arrested by the Albuquerque police. They end up hiring a shady lawyer, Saul Goodman, who ensures that Badger gets off with a light sentence without having to give away Jesse or Walt's identity. Through a private investigator, Saul tracks down Walt at the school and offers his services for a cut of the profit.
169"4 Days Out"Michelle MacLarenSam CatlinMay 3, 2009 (2009-05-03)1.27[11]

Walt is convinced that his medical condition is deteriorating; he continues to have coughing fits and is now coughing up blood. After Saul calculates the numbers, Walt realizes that there is not much money left for his family. With an excuse of visiting his mother, Walt and Jesse set off for the desert for a marathon cooking session over an extended weekend. During their trip, Jesse accidentally leaves the keys in the ignition, inadvertently draining the RV's battery. Walt and Jesse find themselves stuck in the middle of the desert, cold and without food and water. Walt's knowledge of chemistry again saves the day, as they build a makeshift battery able to jump-start the RV. Returning to Albuquerque, Walt and Skyler discover that Walt's cancer is in remission.
1710"Over"Phil AbrahamMoira Walley-BeckettMay 10, 2009 (2009-05-10)1.19[12]

Despite the good news about his condition, Walt is unhappy, verging on anger. Skyler decides to throw a party to celebrate the news and thank all of their friends for their support; Walt gets drunk and forces Walt Jr. to drink an excessive amount of tequila, provoking an argument with Hank. Embarrassed about his behavior, Walt tries to make amends. Walt also tells Jesse the good news and tells him that he is finished with their enterprise. Skyler confides to her boss, Ted, about Walt's condition. Jesse's relationship with Jane continues to grow, but he is taken aback when her father, Donald, drops in to see her; Jane does not introduce Jesse as her boyfriend. The ensuing confrontation compromises their relationship; however, they make up in the end.
1811"Mandala"Adam BernsteinGeorge MastrasMay 17, 2009 (2009-05-17)1.29[13]

After Combo is murdered by a rival gang, Saul proposes a new distribution method for Walt and Jesse's product. Under stress, Jesse tells Jane what he does. Saul puts Walt in touch with a meth distributor named Gus Fring, who agrees to purchase Walt's product. However, Gus expresses concern about Jesse's drug problem, which has escalated into heroin use due to Jane's relapse. Skyler finds out that Ted has been engaging in tax evasion from the IRS, but due to their past relationship, she decides not to report it. Walt receives a large offer for the short-notice delivery of the remainder of their inventory, but at the same time receives a call from Skyler, notifying him of her imminent labor.
1912"Phoenix"Colin BuckseyJohn ShibanMay 24, 2009 (2009-05-24)1.19[14]

Walt delivers the inventory in time but misses his daughter's birth. Jesse confronts Walt about his share of the payment, but Walt refuses to disburse the funds until Jesse can prove his sobriety. Jesse and Jane's addiction is discovered by Donald, who agrees to give her one day to settle her affairs before going to rehab. In an effort to minimize the cost of Walt's upcoming surgery, Walt Jr. sets up a website to gather donations for his father's medical expenses. It is quickly used by Saul as a way to launder Walt's earnings so they can be spent without raising suspicion. After discovering Jesse's payday, Jane blackmails Walt into delivering Jesse's share. Later, Walt returns to Jesse's and finds Jesse and Jane passed out in bed after a drug binge, both lying on their sides. He tries to shake Jesse conscious and as he does so, Jane flops over onto her back. Jane vomits and begins to suffocate. Walt leans to turn her over but quickly changes his mind as he stands and watches Jane die.
2013"ABQ"Adam BernsteinVince GilliganMay 31, 2009 (2009-05-31)1.50[15]

Jesse discovers Jane's passing and reaches out to Walt. Walt contacts Saul, who sends his private investigator and cleaner Mike to conceal Jesse's involvement in Jane's death. Jesse is distraught and flees; Walt later locates him in a crack house and takes him to rehab. Walt's funds are funneled into his son's website, which attracts the attention of the media, causing him to be overcome with guilt. Walt's secretive behavior becomes a problem once again when he accidentally references a second cell phone while under the initial effects of anesthesia moments before his surgery. This prompts Skyler to investigate deeper, thereby revealing many of Walt's lies, including not taking any money from Gretchen and never visiting his mother, which spurs her to leave him. Jane's father, an air traffic controller, is distraught from his daughter's death, and accidentally allows a mid-air collision to occur between an airliner and a small plane in the sky above Albuquerque. The crash results in debris, including a scorched pink teddy bear and human remains, raining down onto the Whites' residence, as well as much of the city.
Production[edit]
The writers of Breaking Bad planned the storyline for the entire season in advance of filming and knew how the season would end right from the beginning. That differed from subsequent seasons, in which the writers did not have a complete plan and developed the storyline as the episodes progressed. Series creator Vince Gilligan said of season two, "That came about through many, many hours of beating our heads against the wall—very laborious work, which is probably why we haven't repeated that formula since."[16]

Music[edit]
The original score for Breaking Bad was composed by Dave Porter. The show also uses music from other recording artists with music supervision by Thomas Golubić. Selected songs from Season 2 are featured on the Breaking Bad soundtrack available through iTunes and Amazon.[17]

Home video releases[edit]
The second season was released on DVD in Region 1 and Blu-ray in Region A on March 16, 2010.[1] It was released on DVD in Region 2 on July 26, 2010[18] and in Region 4 on February 8, 2010.[19]

Reception[edit]
Reviews[edit]
The second season of Breaking Bad received very positive reviews from critics, scoring 84 out of 100 on Metacritic.[20] On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the second season has an approval rating of 97% based on 36 reviews, with an average rating of 9.1/10. The site's critics consensus reads: "Breaking Bad continues to soar, thanks to its artsy style and suspenseful thrills."[21] Entertainment Weekly critic Ken Tucker stated "Bad is a superlatively fresh metaphor for a middle-age crisis: It took cancer and lawbreaking to jolt Walt out of his suburban stupor, to experience life again—to take chances, risk danger, do things he didn't think himself capable of doing. None of this would work, of course, without Emmy winner Cranston's ferocious, funny selflessness as an actor. For all its bleakness and darkness, there's  a glowing exhilaration about this series: It's a feel-good show about feeling really bad."[22] San Francisco Chronicle's Tim Goodman claimed "The first three episodes of Season 2 that AMC sent out continue that level of achievement with no evident missteps. In fact, it looks as if Gilligan's bold vision for Breaking Bad, now duly rewarded against all odds, has invigorated everyone involved in the project. You can sense its maturity and rising ambition in each episode."[23] Horror novelist Stephen King lauded the series, comparing it to Twin Peaks and Blue Velvet.[24] Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger praised the season, calling it "brilliant". He lauded the sound design as well as the cinematography, enjoying the "emphasis of beautiful desert vistas and disturbing tableaux". He also compared the series to The Sopranos, more specifically on the similarity of Walter White and Tony Soprano and their respective reactions to similar situations.[25] David Hinckley of the New York Daily News praised Cranston's performance of Walter White, calling him "one of the best played characters on television".[26]

Awards and nominations[edit]
The second season received numerous awards and nominations, including five Primetime Emmy Award nominations with two wins. Bryan Cranston won his second consecutive award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series and Lynne Willingham won her second consecutive award for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Drama Series for "ABQ". The series received its first nomination for Outstanding Drama Series, Aaron Paul received his first nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series, and Michael Slovis was nominated for Outstanding Cinematography for a One Hour Series for "ABQ".[27]
Cranston won the Television Critics Association Award for Individual Achievement in Drama, with the series being nominated for Outstanding Achievement in Drama. Cranston won his second consecutive Satellite Award for Best Actor in a Drama Series, with the series winning the award for Best Drama Series. Aaron Paul won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor on Television, with the series winning the award for Best Syndicated/Cable Television Series. The series received two Writers Guild of America Award nominations, for Best Drama Series, and John Shiban for Best Episodic Drama for "Phoenix".[27]



Year

Award

Category

Recipient

Result

Ref.


2009
Primetime Emmy Awards
Outstanding Drama Series
Breaking Bad
Nominated
[28]


Outstanding Actor in a Drama Series
Bryan Cranston  for the episode: "Phoenix"
Won


Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series
Aaron Paul  for the episode: "Peekaboo"
Nominated


Outstanding Cinematography for a Single-Camera Series (One Hour)
Michael Slovis  for the episode: "ABQ"
Nominated


Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing - Drama Series
Lynne Willingham  for the episode: "ABQ"
Won


References[edit]


^ a b David Lambert (January 15, 2010). "Breaking Bad - Slight Delay for Season 2 DVD and Blu-ray (and also Season 1 Blu-ray)". TVShowsOnDVD.com. Archived from the original on October 10, 2012. Retrieved November 17, 2010.

^ "The Big Secret of 'Breaking Bad': Walter White Was Always a Bad Guy". The Atlantic. August 31, 2012. Archived from the original on May 15, 2014. Retrieved March 22, 2016.

^ Seidman, Robert (March 10, 2009). "iCarly, Burn Notice and WWE RAW top cable charts". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 17, 2012. Retrieved June 20, 2011.

^ Crupi, Anthony (April 2, 2009). "AMC Renews Breaking Bad". Mediaweek. Archived from the original on April 4, 2009. Retrieved July 12, 2015.

^ Gorman, Bill (March 30, 2009). "Sunday Ratings: NCAA Tourney Lifts CBS To Victory, Fox Captures Youth Demo". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 18, 2012. Retrieved June 20, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (April 1, 2009). "My Wednesday viewing dwindles with finales of Life on Mars, Damages and Life". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 14, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (April 7, 2009). "Damages season finale draws few, WWE RAW, NCIS lead cable viewing". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 19, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2011.

^ Seidman, Robert (April 14, 2009). "WWE RAW and Nora Roberts Tribute bookend cable top 20, Rescue Me premieres". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 19, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2011.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending April 19, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 15, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ Seidman, Robert (April 28, 2009). "Updated: WWE RAW, NFL Draft and Yankees / Red Sox Lead Weekly Cable Viewing". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on August 7, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2011.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending May 3, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 20, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending May 10, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 24, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending May 17, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 26, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ "Broadcast & Cable Nielsens: Week Ending May 24, 2009". Ratings Ryan. August 27, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2022.

^ Levin, Gary (June 5, 2009). "Nielsens: 'Jon & Kate' plus big ratings". USA Today. Archived from the original on September 21, 2013. Retrieved July 3, 2015.

^ VanDerWerff, Emily (October 10, 2011). "Vince Gilligan walks us through season four of Breaking Bad (part 1 of 4)". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on October 12, 2011. Retrieved October 6, 2019.

^ "Music From Breaking Bad Season 2". AMCTV.com. January 18, 2008. Archived from the original on May 1, 2012. Retrieved May 8, 2012.

^ "Breaking Bad - Season 2". Amazon.co.uk. July 26, 2010. Archived from the original on August 18, 2012. Retrieved November 18, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad - The Complete 2nd Season (4 Disc Set)". EzyDVD. Archived from the original on March 2, 2010. Retrieved November 18, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 2". Metacritic. Archived from the original on February 26, 2012. Retrieved November 17, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 2 (2009)". Rotten Tomatoes. Archived from the original on May 23, 2019. Retrieved June 21, 2020.

^ Tucker, Ken (March 8, 2009). "Breaking Bad review". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on December 29, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Goodman, Tim (March 6, 2009). "TV review: 'Breaking Bad' proves anything but". San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on January 31, 2011. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ King, Stephen (March 6, 2009). "Stephen King: I Love 'Breaking Bad'!". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on January 6, 2012. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Sepinwall, Alan (May 29, 2009). "'Breaking Bad' ends killer second season". The Star-Ledger. Archived from the original on November 27, 2018. Retrieved November 27, 2018.

^ Hinckley, David (March 6, 2009). "'Breaking Bad' still dealing good stuff". New York Daily News. Archived from the original on November 27, 2018. Retrieved November 27, 2018.

^ a b "Awards for "Breaking Bad"". IMDB. Archived from the original on July 26, 2010. Retrieved November 17, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad - Emmy Awards, Nominations and Wins". Emmys.com. Archived from the original on May 14, 2020. Retrieved April 10, 2020.


External links[edit]



Wikiquote has quotations related to Breaking Bad season 2.

Breaking Bad at IMDb
vteBreaking BadEpisodesSeason 1
"Pilot"
"Cat's in the Bag..."
"...And the Bag's in the River"
"Cancer Man"
"Gray Matter"
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"
Season 2
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
"Grilled"
"Bit by a Dead Bee"
"Down"
"Breakage"
"Peekaboo"
"Negro y Azul"
"Better Call Saul"
"4 Days Out"
"Over"
"Mandala"
"Phoenix"
"ABQ"
Season 3
"No Más"
"Caballo sin Nombre"
"I.F.T."
"Green Light"
"Más"
"Sunset"
"One Minute"
"I See You"
"Kafkaesque"
"Fly"
"Abiquiu"
"Half Measures"
"Full Measure"
Season 4
"Box Cutter"
"Thirty-Eight Snub"
"Open House"
"Bullet Points"
"Shotgun"
"Cornered"
"Problem Dog"
"Hermanos"
"Bug"
"Salud"
"Crawl Space"
"End Times"
"Face Off"
Season 5Part 1
"Live Free or Die"
"Madrigal"
"Hazard Pay"
"Fifty-One"
"Dead Freight"
"Buyout"
"Say My Name"
"Gliding Over All"
Part 2
"Blood Money"
"Buried"
"Confessions"
"Rabid Dog"
"To'hajiilee"
"Ozymandias"
"Granite State"
"Felina"
Characters
Walter White
Skyler White
Jesse Pinkman
Hank Schrader
Marie Schrader
Walter White Jr.
Saul Goodman
Gus Fring
Mike Ehrmantraut
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Better Call Saul
"Breaking Bad"
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Metástasis
Talking Bad
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Baby Blue"
Faking Bad
Spiralix heisenbergi
"What Animated Women Want"
"Pickle Rick"
"Plug Walk"
"Celebrity Booze: The Ultimate Cash Grab"

 Category
 WikiQuote
 WikiCommons





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Breaking_Bad_season_2&oldid=1218284562"



Third season of the AMC crime drama television series
Season of television series
Breaking BadSeason 3Season 3 DVD coverStarring
Bryan Cranston
Anna Gunn
Aaron Paul
Dean Norris
Betsy Brandt
RJ Mitte
Giancarlo Esposito
Bob Odenkirk
Jonathan Banks
No. of episodes13ReleaseOriginal networkAMCOriginal releaseMarch 21 (2010-03-21) –June 13, 2010 (2010-06-13)Season chronology← PreviousSeason 2Next →Season 4List of episodes
The third season of the American television drama series Breaking Bad premiered on March 21, 2010, and concluded on June 13, 2010. It consisted of 13 episodes, each running about 47 minutes. AMC broadcast the third season on Sundays at 10:00 pm in the United States. The complete third season was released on Region 1 DVD and Region A Blu-ray on June 7, 2011.[1]
Season 3 saw actors Bob Odenkirk, Giancarlo Esposito and Jonathan Banks, who play Saul, Gus and Mike respectively, upgraded to main cast status after guest starring the previous season, although they are not credited for every episode until season 4.


Cast[edit]
See also: List of Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul characters
Main[edit]
Bryan Cranston as Walter White, a terminally ill former high school chemistry teacher who is secretly cooking meth.
Anna Gunn as Skyler White, Walt's wife who learns about Walt's criminal activity.
Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman, Walt's former student who helps him cook.
Dean Norris as Hank Schrader, Walt's brother-in-law who is a DEA agent.
Betsy Brandt as Marie Schrader, Skyler's sister, and Hank's wife.
RJ Mitte as Walter White Jr., Walt and Skyler's teenaged son who has cerebral palsy.
Giancarlo Esposito as Gus Fring, a drug kingpin who uses his restaurant, Los Pollos Hermanos, as a money laundering front.
Bob Odenkirk as Saul Goodman, Walt's sleazy lawyer who helps him cover his tracks.
Jonathan Banks as Mike Ehrmantraut, one of Gus' most loyal henchmen and one of Saul's associates.
Recurring[edit]
Jeremiah Bitsui as Victor, one of Gus' henchmen.
Daniel and Luis Moncada as Leonel and Marco Salamanca, two twin brothers, one of Hector's nephews, who seek revenge for the death of their cousin Tuco.
Steven Michael Quezada as Steven Gomez, Hank's partner at the DEA.
Charles Baker as Skinny Pete, one of Jesse's friends.
Christopher Cousins as Ted Beneke, Skyler's former boss who she has a brief affair with.
David Costabile as Gale Boetticher, one of Gus' associates who briefly worked with Walt.
Michael Shamus Wiles as ASAC George Merkert, the head of the Albuquerque DEA office, Hank and Steve's boss.
Jere Burns as Group Leader, a counselor who helps recovering drug addicts, including Jesse.
Matt L. Jones as Badger, one of Jesse's friends.
Mark Margolis as Hector Salamanca, Leonel and Marco's uncle and Gus' arch nemesis.
Javier Grajeda as Juan Bolsa, a high ranking cartel member.
Emily Rios as Andrea Cantillo, a recovering addict who Jesse meets at group therapy.
Carmen Serano as Principal Carmen Molina, the principal of J.P. Wynne High School, where Walter Jr. attends and where Walt used to work.
Guest[edit]
John de Lancie as Donald Margolis, Jesse's former landlord who is still grieving over the death of his daughter, Jane.
Larry Hankin as Old Joe, a junkyard owner who helps Walt and Jesse destroy the RV they cooked meth in.
Tess Harper as Diane Pinkman, Jesse's mother.
Tom Kiesche as Clovis, Badger's cousin
Tina Parker as Francesca Liddy, Saul's secretary.
Krysten Ritter as Jane Margolis, Donald's deceased daughter, and Jesse's former girlfriend who appears in a flashback scene.
Rodney Rush as Combo, Jesse's deceased friend who appears in a flashback scene.
Marius Stan as Bogdan, Walt's former boss who owns a car wash that Walt wants to buy so he can launder his money.
Danny Trejo as Tortuga, a cartel member who worked as an informant for the DEA, until he was killed by Leonel and Marco.
Episodes[edit]
See also: List of Breaking Bad episodes
No.overallNo. inseasonTitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)211"No Más"Bryan CranstonVince GilliganMarch 21, 2010 (2010-03-21)1.95[2]

All of Albuquerque is in shock in the aftermath of the mid-air plane collision. Walt is living in his home alone after Skyler has moved out with Walt Jr. and their newborn daughter Holly to give Walt time to pack his things. Skyler speaks to a divorce lawyer about making the split permanent, but wavers when the attorney says she should try to uncover any money Walt may have hidden. Later, Skyler confronts Walt about the divorce and accuses him of being a weed dealer; Walt admits that he cooks meth, causing Skyler to leave, deeply shaken. Jesse is in rehab trying to overcome his drug addiction and come to terms with Jane's death. Walt tells Gus that he is leaving the business, though he briefly considers Gus' very lucrative offer. Meanwhile, two dangerous-looking twin brothers cross into the US from Mexico in search of Heisenberg.
222"Caballo sin Nombre"Adam BernsteinPeter GouldMarch 28, 2010 (2010-03-28)1.55[2]

Walt is having difficulty adjusting to his new life. He has an encounter with a police officer but manages to avoid charges, thanks to Hank's intervention. Skyler continues to not let Walt return home, dismaying Walt Jr., who does not understand his mother's behavior. Saul wants Walt to start producing meth again and takes steps to encourage him in that direction. Unbeknownst to Walt, the twins (revealed to be Tuco's cousins) discover where he lives. Jesse, meanwhile, stops by his old house and discovers that his parents have had it renovated and have put it up for sale. Relations are still strained between them, and Jesse approaches Saul to buy the house from his parents. The cousins arrive at Walt's home to kill him but are called off at the last minute by Gus.
233"I.F.T."Michelle MacLarenGeorge MastrasApril 4, 2010 (2010-04-04)1.33[2]

Walt moves back into the house and tells Skyler he has no intention of leaving. Walt Jr. is thrilled that his dad is back, but Skyler calls the police in an attempt to have Walt thrown out. The police don't intervene, however, and she stops short of revealing Walt's illegal activities. Jesse is still having trouble coming to terms with Jane's death but has moved back into his house. Unbeknownst to Walt, Gus arranges a meeting with his Mexican cartel counterparts (including Tuco's cousins and uncle), and makes it clear that he wants Walt left alone. Hank, after finding out he is going to be transferred back to El Paso, lashes out in a bar. Walt explains to Skyler that he committed all of his illegal activities for the sake of the family, and begs her to accept the drug money. Later, Skyler seduces Ted, and that night, she coolly informs Walt of her infidelity.
244"Green Light"Scott WinantSam CatlinApril 11, 2010 (2010-04-11)1.46[2]

Jesse gives meth to a cashier in exchange for gasoline. Walt makes a scene at Skyler’s workplace while confronting Ted, but Mike removes Walt before the police can arrive. Saul tries to convince Walt to continue producing meth, but Walt refuses the offer and loses Saul’s help laundering money. Walt attempts to seduce the school principal, Carmen, but is promptly rebuffed and loses his job. As he leaves he is met by Jesse, who has produced a new batch of meth, following Walt's recipe. Walt rejects Jesse's product as substandard, and Jesse resolves to sell the product to Gus himself. Gus reluctantly agrees to the purchase, anticipating that Walt’s pride and financial need will convince him to accept his business proposition. Jesse makes the sale but receives only half the payment, while the second half is delivered to Walt. Hank forgoes his transfer to El Paso in order to pursue a new lead in the Heisenberg case, having found footage of Jesse's RV at the gas station.
255"Más"Johan RenckMoira Walley-BeckettApril 18, 2010 (2010-04-18)1.61[2]

Walt correctly deduces that Gus tried to lure him back into the business by giving him half of Jesse's sale, but still refuses to accept. Gus tries to convince him for a last time with a high-tech superlab. Meanwhile, Hank continues investigating the RV and has an argument with Marie, who is concerned for his well-being and worries that he might be hiding something from her. Marie confides in Skyler, which in turn makes her doubt her new relationship with Ted. Moreover, she reconsiders Walt's drug money and starts realizing that she might want to patch things up. In the end, though, Skyler comes home to find the divorce contract signed by Walt, and all his belongings gone, including the money. At Saul's office, Walt gives the money to Jesse but reveals that he has decided to cook again, angering Jesse but exciting Saul. Hank finds a link between the RV and Jesse when he discovers it belonged to Combo's mother.
266"Sunset"John ShibanJohn ShibanApril 25, 2010 (2010-04-25)1.64[2]

Walt settles into a new apartment and takes a liking to his new, well-qualified lab assistant, Gale. In the wake of the divorce, Walt Jr. wants answers about his parents' relationship. Walt realizes that Hank has discovered Jesse's link to the RV and orders it destroyed. When Jesse angrily arrives, Hank follows him and corners them inside the RV, but is unaware of Walt's presence. They avoid capture by drawing Hank away with Saul's assistance, who has his secretary call Hank and claim that Marie was in an accident. Hank realizes the ruse only when he goes to the hospital, and Walt and Jesse nostalgically watch as the RV is destroyed. Gus, seeing that Tuco's two cousins definitely intend to kill Walt and cannot be held at bay for long, successfully turns their attention instead to Hank.
277"One Minute"Michelle MacLarenThomas SchnauzMay 2, 2010 (2010-05-02)1.52[2]

Hank brutally attacks Jesse in retaliation for the incident at the impound lot; in the hospital, Jesse tells Saul and Walt that he will make Hank's life miserable and continue cooking, threatening to hand Walt to the DEA if he or Saul intervene. Skyler pressures Walt to convince Jesse to drop the charges against Hank. Walt engineers a fallout with Gale, and over Gus' objections, offers Jesse a chance to renew their partnership. At first, Jesse angrily refuses, but later agrees. Hank tearfully reflects with Marie on how his professionalism has deteriorated since he killed Tuco, before being suspended without pay. Later, Hank receives an anonymous call warning him he has one minute before he is attacked. Tuco's cousins arrive and shoot him several times, but he manages to mortally wound one of them and kill the other.
288"I See You"Colin BuckseyGennifer HutchisonMay 9, 2010 (2010-05-09)1.78[2]

Jesse is discharged from the hospital following Hank's attack on him and sees Hank being admitted in critical condition. Marie lashes out at Hank's boss when she hears they had taken his gun away, as well as at Walt, whom she blames for putting Jesse on Hank's radar in the first place. Walt lets Gale go, and while Walt is at the hospital, Jesse is left on his own in the lab and, unable to cook, becomes worried about meeting their quota. At the hospital, Walt sees one of Hank's assailants recovering and realizes they were probably after him as well; Gus decides to pay a visit to the hospital, and Walt learns that Gus has known for a while that Hank is his brother-in-law. Minutes after Gus leaves, the other assailant dies, and Mike is seen nearby (though only by the audience) dropping an empty syringe into a sharps container and then leaving. During a phone conversation with Gus, drug lord Juan Bolsa is shot in his home.
299"Kafkaesque"Michael SlovisPeter Gould & George MastrasMay 16, 2010 (2010-05-16)1.61[2]

Walt and Jesse are in full production in the new lab and easily producing their target 200 pounds of meth per week, while Jesse skims some of the excess to sell on his own with Badger and Skinny Pete. Hank is still recovering in the hospital, and Marie is at a loss about what to do when she learns that their insurance will not provide the quality of physical therapy Hank requires to walk again. Skyler, certain that Walt is at least indirectly responsible for the attack on Hank, proposes that she and Walt pay the bills, spinning a tale about Walt's "gambling". Hank's work partner Gomez shows Hank a map that indicates blue meth has been sold in seven states and tells Hank he was right about Heisenberg still being active. When Hank reveals that he received a warning phone call, Walt realizes that the attackers were after him and that Gus deflected their attention onto Hank.
3010"Fly"Rian JohnsonSam Catlin & Moira Walley-BeckettMay 23, 2010 (2010-05-23)1.20[2]

Walt is suffering from insomnia, worried about the direction his life has taken. Unaware that Jesse has been skimming, he is also concerned that their yield is a half-pound short of his calculations. His paranoia comes to a head when he spots a small housefly in the lab, and, worried about contamination, goes to extreme lengths to kill it. Jesse, at first dismissive, begins to help as well, and when he finds out Walt has not slept in two days, slips sleeping pills into Walt's coffee. Walt tries to pinpoint the exact moment when things got out of control. It becomes clear that the paranoia over contamination is not about the fly at all. Near delirium, Walt repeatedly refers to Jane and the night she died but stops short of telling Jesse what really happened. While Walt sleeps, Jesse cooks the batch on his own. In the parking lot the following morning, Walt refers to the missing half-pound of meth and warns Jesse that there may be hidden cameras in the lab and that he won't be able to protect Jesse if Gus finds out about the reason for the shortage.
3111"Abiquiu"Michelle MacLarenJohn Shiban & Thomas SchnauzMay 30, 2010 (2010-05-30)1.32[2]

Skyler gets the first of Hank's hospital bills and, concerned that the money they use to pay them could be traced back to Walt's illegal activities, decides to get more involved in Walt's business affairs. Walt introduces her to Saul, but she is unimpressed by the investment Saul has lined up and has a better idea. Jesse tries to peddle the meth he has been skimming at the lab and, fed up with Badger and Skinny Pete's reluctance to sell to their rehab group decides to sell to Andrea, a new member at their NA meeting. He ends up in a relationship with her and refuses to sell her meth when he finds out she has a six-year-old son. At the hospital, Marie is thrilled at the prospect of Hank's returning home, but he adamantly refuses to leave the hospital until he can walk. Gus invites Walt to dinner and dispenses sage advice. Jesse discovers that Andrea's little brother was the kid who shot Combo.
3212"Half Measures"Adam BernsteinSam Catlin & Peter GouldJune 6, 2010 (2010-06-06)1.19[2]

Jesse is ready for revenge when he realizes that the drug dealers who killed his friend are not only peddling his and Walt's blue meth but are using Andrea's 11-year-old brother Tomas as a hit man and drug dealer. Jesse is prepared to kill them and wants Walt to help him out. Walt refuses, but realizing the danger Jesse has put himself in, takes steps to protect him. Hank, meanwhile, is still reluctant to leave the hospital and go home, even though his doctors have told him he is free to leave at any time. Jesse learns that the drug dealers have chosen to end Tomas's involvement in their activities by killing the boy, and decides to kill the two dealers himself. Walt hears about the boy's death on TV and realizes Jesse is planning something. Jesse confronts the dealers, and as he and the dealers get their guns ready, Walt arrives in his car and runs the dealers over. A shocked Jesse stands watching, as Walt jumps out of his car, picks up a gun, and shoots one of the dealers in the head, telling Jesse to "run".
3313"Full Measure"Vince GilliganVince GilliganJune 13, 2010 (2010-06-13)1.56[3]

After killing the drug dealers, Walt has a tense meeting with Gus, who makes it clear that his patience has reached its limit. Walt professes not to know the whereabouts of Jesse, who he falsely claims has fled the state. Gus chooses Walt's new assistant, who turns out to be Gale. In a meeting with Gale, Gus says that with his overhead he cannot afford to lose even a week's production. Walt realizes Gus intends to replace him with Gale, the only other trained chemist, and that he will be killed once Gale masters Walt's procedure. After he is abducted by Gus's men, Walt calls Jesse and orders him to murder Gale, knowing that Gus will have to keep him (and by extension Jesse) alive once he is the only trained chemist left. Victor races to Gale's apartment to stop this, but Jesse arrives first and, after some hesitation, pulls his gun on Gale and fires.
Production[edit]
Unlike the second season, when the Breaking Bad writers planned the storyline for the entire season in advance of filming, the writing staff did not fully plan out the third season before production and instead developed the storyline as the episodes progressed.[4] The third episode is dedicated to Shari Rhodes (the location casting director for Breaking Bad) who died due to breast cancer during the filming.[5]
Gennifer Hutchison and Thomas Schnauz were added to the writing staff this season, both of whom had worked previously with Vince Gilligan on The X-Files. With the exception of John Shiban, who would leave at the end of the season to executive produce Hell on Wheels,[6] the writing staff for season three would remain on the show until its conclusion in 2013.

Home media[edit]
The third season was released on DVD in Region 1 and on Blu-ray in Region A on June 7, 2011,[1] in Region 4 on November 24, 2010[7] and in Region 2 in Germany on May 19, 2011.[8]
Special features on the DVD and Blu-ray include nine audio commentaries:

"No Más" by Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, Anna Gunn, Skip Macdonald, Dave Porter, and Michael Slovis
"Más" by Vince Gilligan, Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, Anna Gunn, Bob Odenkirk, and Moira Walley-Beckett
"Sunset" by Vince Gilligan, Dean Norris, John Shiban, Kelley Dixon, and Thomas Golubic
"One Minute" by Dean Norris, Luis Moncada, Daniel Moncada, Michelle MacLaren, Thomas Schnauz, and Dave Porter
"I See You" by Vince Gilligan, Bryan Cranston, Betsy Brandt, RJ Mitte, and Gennifer Hutchison
"Kafkaesque" by Vince Gilligan, Betsy Brandt, George Mastras, and Michael Slovis
"Fly" by Vince Gilligan, Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, and Moira Walley-Beckett
"Half Measures" by Bryan Cranston, Adam Bernstein, Bill Powloski, Peter Gould, Jonathan Banks, and Michael Slovis
"Full Measure" by Vince Gilligan, Aaron Paul, Anna Gunn, Bob Odenkirk, and Jonathan Banks
Behind-the-scene featurettes include:

20 episodes of "Inside Breaking Bad"
"Hit and Run"
"The Music of Breaking Bad"
"White Heat: Cranston on Fire"
"Pizza of Destiny: Cranston's Greatest Shot"
"Silent But Deadly: The Brothers Moncada"
"Team S.C.I.E.N.C.E."
"AMC News Visits the Breaking Bad Writer's Room"
Mini video podcasts for every episode
Also included are a gag reel, deleted scenes, and "Better Call Saul" commercials and testimonials. Exclusive to the Blu-ray release is the Breaking Bad cast and crew photo collection.[1]

Reception[edit]
Reviews[edit]
The third season of Breaking Bad scored 89 out of 100 on review aggregator site Metacritic indicating "universal acclaim".[9] On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the third season has an approval rating of 100% based on 36 reviews, with an average rating of 9.2/10. The site's critics consensus reads: "Breaking Bad's well-toned storytelling flares up this season with dramatic story changes and calculated direction."[10] Time proclaimed "It's a drama that has chosen the slow burn over the flashy explosion, and it's all the hotter for that choice."[11] Newsday stated Breaking Bad was still TV's best series and it stayed true to itself.[12] Tim Goodman praised the writing, acting, and cinematography, pointing out the "visual adventurousness" of the series. Goodman went on to call the show's visuals as "a combination of staggering beauty – the directors make use of numerous wide-angle landscape portraits — and transfixing weirdness."[13] After the finale aired, The A.V. Club said that season three was "one of television's finest dramatic accomplishments. And what makes it so exciting — what makes the recognition of the current golden age so pressing — is that the season has not been, as [another reviewer] put it in another context, 'television good.'  The heart-in-the-throat quality of this season comes as much from the writers' exhilarating disregard for television conventions as from the events portrayed."[14]

Awards and nominations[edit]
The third season received numerous awards and nominations, including seven Primetime Emmy Award nominations with two wins. Bryan Cranston won his third consecutive award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series and Aaron Paul won for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series after being nominated the previous year. The series received its second consecutive nomination for Outstanding Drama Series; Michelle MacLaren was nominated for Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series for "One Minute". Michael Slovis was nominated for Outstanding Cinematography for a One Hour Series for "No Más"; Skip Macdonald received his second nomination for Outstanding Single Camera Picture-Editing for a Drama Series for "No Más", and it was also nominated for Outstanding Sound Editing for "One Minute".[15]
The series received four nominations for the Television Critics Association Awards, winning for Outstanding Achievement in Drama. Bryan Cranston and Aaron Paul were each nominated for Individual Achievement in Drama, with the series being nominated for Program of the Year. Cranston received his first Golden Globe nomination for Best Actor in a Drama Series.[16] Cranston also received a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series.[15] Cranston won his third consecutive Satellite Award for Best Actor in a Drama Series, with the series winning the award for Best Drama Series for the second year in a row. Paul was nominated for Best Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television. The series received four nominations for the Saturn Awards, winning the award for Best Syndicated/Cable Television Series for the second year in a row. Cranston was nominated for Best Actor on Television, Paul and Dean Norris were nominated for Best Supporting Actor on Television, and Giancarlo Esposito was nominated for Best Guest Starring Role on Television. The series received three Writers Guild of America Award nominations, for Best Drama Series, George Mastras for Best Episodic Drama for "I.F.T.", and Gennifer Hutchison for Best Episodic Drama for "I See You".



Year

Award

Category

Recipient

Result

Ref.


2010
Primetime Emmy Awards
Outstanding Drama Series
Breaking Bad
Nominated
[17]


Outstanding Actor in a Drama Series
Bryan Cranston  Episode: "Full Measure"
Won


Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series
Aaron Paul  Episode: "Half Measures"
Won


Outstanding Director for a Drama Series
Michelle MacLaren  Episode: "One Minute"
Nominated


Outstanding Cinematography for a Single-Camera Series (One Hour)
Michael Slovis  Episode: "No Mas"
Nominated


Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing - Drama Series
Skip Macdonald Episode: "No Mas"
Nominated


Outstanding Sound Editing for a Series
Breaking Bad  Episode: "One Minute"
Nominated


James Poniewozik of TIME named "One Minute" as the fourth-best television episode of 2010.[18] He also included "Fly", "Half Measures" and "Full Measure" on his list of honorable mentions.[19] The Futon Critic listed "Full Measure" as the sixth-best episode of 2010, saying that "No show has played with the expectations of we've come to expect from television more than Breaking Bad.[20] IGN named Breaking Bad the best television series of 2010.[21]

References[edit]


^ a b c Lambert, David (March 28, 2011). "Breaking Bad – Press Release, Package Art, Extras for 'The Complete 3rd Season' DVDs, Blu-rays". TV Shows On DVD. Archived from the original on May 25, 2012. Retrieved March 28, 2011.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Julia (April 7, 2010). "Breaking Bad Season 3 Ratings". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on November 26, 2010. Retrieved November 10, 2010.

^ Gorman, Bill (June 15, 2010). "Sunday Cable Ratings: True Blood, Breaking Bad, Army Wives, Drop Dead Diva & Much More". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on June 20, 2011. Retrieved November 8, 2010.

^ VanDerWerff, Emily (October 10, 2011). "Vince Gilligan walks us through season four of Breaking Bad (part 1 of 4)". The A.V. Club. Archived from the original on October 12, 2011. Retrieved October 6, 2019.

^ "Casting director Shari Rhodes dies". Variety. December 22, 2009. Retrieved April 29, 2012.

^ Peterman, Mindy (October 28, 2011). "An Interview with John Shiban, Executive Producer of AMC's New Western Hell On Wheels". The Morton Report. Retrieved December 2, 2013.

^ "Breaking Bad – The Complete 3rd Season (4 Disc Set)". Sanity. Archived from the original on April 5, 2012. Retrieved July 28, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad – The Complete 3rd Season". Amazon.de. May 19, 2011. Retrieved October 25, 2011.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 3". Metacritic. Retrieved November 24, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad: Season 3 (2010)". Rotten Tomatoes. Retrieved June 21, 2020.

^ Poniewosik, James (March 19, 2010). "TV Weekend: Breaking Bad's White-Hot Slow Burn". Time. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Gaye, Verne (March 19, 2010). ""Breaking Bad:" Still bad, in a good way". Newsday. Retrieved December 20, 2011.

^ Goodman, Tim (March 19, 2010). "TV Review: 'Breaking Bad' premiere". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved January 2, 2012.

^ Bowman, Donna (June 13, 2010). "Breaking Bad: Full Measure". The A.V. Club. Retrieved January 2, 2012.

^ a b "Awards for "Breaking Bad" (2008)". IMDB. Retrieved November 24, 2010.

^ Reiher, Andrea (December 14, 2010). "2011 Golden Globes nominations: 'Glee,' '30 Rock' lead TV nominations". Zap2it. Retrieved December 14, 2010.

^ "Breaking Bad - Emmy Awards, Nominations and Wins". Emmys.com. Retrieved April 10, 2020.

^ Poniewozik, James (December 9, 2010). "The Top 10 Everything of 2010". TIME. Archived from the original on December 12, 2010. Retrieved December 10, 2010.

^ Poniewozik, James (December 9, 2010). "Top 10 Episodes of 2010: The Best and the Rest". TIME. Retrieved December 15, 2010.

^ Ford Sullivan, Brian (January 8, 2011). "The 50 Best Episodes of 2010: #10–1". The Futon Critic. Retrieved January 8, 2011.

^ "The Best of 2010". IGN. December 20, 2010. Retrieved October 14, 2011.


External links[edit]
Breaking Bad at IMDb
vteBreaking BadEpisodesSeason 1
"Pilot"
"Cat's in the Bag..."
"...And the Bag's in the River"
"Cancer Man"
"Gray Matter"
"Crazy Handful of Nothin'"
"A No-Rough-Stuff-Type Deal"
Season 2
"Seven Thirty-Seven"
"Grilled"
"Bit by a Dead Bee"
"Down"
"Breakage"
"Peekaboo"
"Negro y Azul"
"Better Call Saul"
"4 Days Out"
"Over"
"Mandala"
"Phoenix"
"ABQ"
Season 3
"No Más"
"Caballo sin Nombre"
"I.F.T."
"Green Light"
"Más"
"Sunset"
"One Minute"
"I See You"
"Kafkaesque"
"Fly"
"Abiquiu"
"Half Measures"
"Full Measure"
Season 4
"Box Cutter"
"Thirty-Eight Snub"
"Open House"
"Bullet Points"
"Shotgun"
"Cornered"
"Problem Dog"
"Hermanos"
"Bug"
"Salud"
"Crawl Space"
"End Times"
"Face Off"
Season 5Part 1
"Live Free or Die"
"Madrigal"
"Hazard Pay"
"Fifty-One"
"Dead Freight"
"Buyout"
"Say My Name"
"Gliding Over All"
Part 2
"Blood Money"
"Buried"
"Confessions"
"Rabid Dog"
"To'hajiilee"
"Ozymandias"
"Granite State"
"Felina"
Characters
Walter White
Skyler White
Jesse Pinkman
Hank Schrader
Marie Schrader
Walter White Jr.
Saul Goodman
Gus Fring
Mike Ehrmantraut
Related
Franchise
Awards and nominations
Better Call Saul
"Breaking Bad"
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie
Metástasis
Talking Bad
Los Pollos Hermanos
"Baby Blue"
Faking Bad
Spiralix heisenbergi
"What Animated Women Want"
"Pickle Rick"
"Plug Walk"
"Celebrity Booze: The Ultimate Cash Grab"

 Category
 WikiQuote
 WikiCommons

vteTCA Award for Outstanding Achievement in Drama1980s
The Jewel in the Crown (1985)
Death of a Salesman (1986)
L.A. Law (season 1) (1987)
St. Elsewhere (season 6) (1988)
Lonesome Dove (1989)
1990s
Twin Peaks (season 1) (1990)
thirtysomething (season 4) (1991)
I’ll Fly Away (season 1) (1992)
I’ll Fly Away (season 2) (1993)
NYPD Blue (season 1) (1994)
My So-Called Life (season 1) (1995)
Homicide: Life on the Street (season 4) (1996)
Homicide: Life on the Street (season 5) (1997)
Homicide: Life on the Street (season 6) (1998)
The Sopranos (season 1) (1999)
2000s
The West Wing (season 1) (2000)
The Sopranos (season 3) / The West Wing (season 2) (2001)
Six Feet Under (season 1/season 2) (2002)
Boomtown (season 1) (2003)
The Sopranos (season 5) (2004)
Lost (season 1) (2005)
Lost (season 2) (2006)
The Sopranos (season 6, part II) (2007)
Mad Men (season 1) (2008)
Mad Men (season 2) (2009)
2010s
Breaking Bad (season 3) / Lost (season 6) (2010)
Mad Men (season 4) (2011)
Breaking Bad (season 4) (2012)
Game of Thrones (season 3) (2013)
The Good Wife (season 5) (2014)
The Americans (season 3) (2015)
The Americans (season 4) (2016)
The Handmaid's Tale (season 1) (2017)
The Americans (season 6) (2018)
Better Call Saul (season 4) (2019)
2020s
Succession (season 2) (2020)
The Crown (season 4) (2021)
Succession (season 3) (2022)
Succession (season 4) (2023)





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Breaking_Bad_season_3&oldid=1217368385"