


Welcome to Wikipedia,
the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit.
6,826,158 articles in English




From today's featured article
The oyster dress is a high fashion gown created by British fashion designer Alexander McQueen for his Spring/Summer 2003 collection Irere. McQueen's design is a one-shouldered dress in bias-cut beige silk chiffon with a boned upper body and a full-length skirt consisting of hundreds of individual circles of organza sewn in dense layers to the base fabric, resembling an oyster shell. The dress originated as a reinterpretation of the "shellfish dress" designed by John Galliano in 1987, which McQueen had long admired and sought to emulate. Contemporary critical responses to McQueen's oyster dress were positive and it is considered an iconic piece of McQueen's work. Only two copies are known to exist, one held by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and one by media personality Kim Kardashian. McQueen returned to the oyster dress concept several times over his career, most prominently in his Autumn/Winter 2006 collection The Widows of Culloden. (Full article...)

Recently featured: 
Mary Anning
City of Champaign v. Madigan
"Gento" (song)


Archive
By email
More featured articles
About

Did you know ...



Yamazakura by Kawahara Keiga

... that bears may be dispersers of the Japanese mountain cherry (painting pictured)?
... that Romani Holocaust survivor Philomena Franz wrote about her deportation to Auschwitz, internment in Ravensbrück, escape from a camp near Wittenberge, and concealment by a farmer?
... that a large basin on Neptune's moon Triton may have once been filled with liquid water cryolava, similar to how liquid silicates fill lava lakes on Earth?
... that Inman Jackson played "as though he were born with a basketball in each hand"?
... that Josephine Kenyon moved from recommendations of rigid scheduling to "on-demand" scheduling in editions of her book Healthy Babies Are Happy Babies?
... that Amie Parnes allegedly first heard about her employer, The Messenger, ceasing operations from a New York Times article?
... that Coffee Talk Episode 2: Hibiscus & Butterfly was released after the main creator of Coffee Talk died in March 2022?
... that baritone Liviu Holender chose lieder by five composers whose music was banned by the Nazis—Schreker, Zemlinsky, Mahler, Korngold and Schönberg—for a recital at the Oper Frankfurt?
... that one member of the U.S. Army Air Corps was so unimpressed by the Estoppey D-8 that he stated that he would rather use "nails and a wire"?

Archive
Start a new article
Nominate an article




In the news


Ebrahim Raisi

A helicopter crash near Varzaqan, Iran, kills eight people, including President Ebrahim Raisi (pictured) and Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian.
In boxing, Oleksandr Usyk defeats Tyson Fury to become the first undisputed heavyweight champion in twenty-four years.
Protests over voting rights changes break out in the French territory of New Caledonia.
Lee Hsien Loong steps down after nearly twenty years as Prime Minister of Singapore, and is succeeded by Lawrence Wong.

Ongoing: 
Israel–Hamas war
timeline
Russian invasion of Ukraine
timeline
War in Sudan
timeline
Recent deaths: 
Fernando Martínez Castellano
John Koerner
Pat Buckley
Katherine Porter
Dabney Coleman
Darren Dutchyshen

Nominate an article

On this day

May 22



Prayut Chan-o-cha

1766 – A magnitude-7.1 earthquake struck Constantinople and was followed by a tsunami that caused significant damage.
1874 – Giuseppe Verdi's Requiem was first performed in the San Marco church in Milan to commemorate the first anniversary of Alessandro Manzoni's death.
1998 – In Public Prosecutor v Taw Cheng Kong, the Court of Appeal of Singapore overruled a High Court decision in the only time a statute in Singapore had been ruled unconstitutional.
2014 – Prayut Chan-o-cha (pictured), the commander-in-chief of the Royal Thai Army, launched a coup d'état against the caretaker government following six months of political crisis.
Jovan Vladimir  (d. 1016)John Forest  (d. 1538)Charles Aznavour (b. 1924)Apolo Ohno  (b. 1982)

More anniversaries: 
May 21
May 22
May 23


Archive
By email
List of days of the year




Today's featured picture







De Viron Castle is a castle in the town of Dilbeek in Flemish Brabant, Belgium. Commissioned by the de Viron family, which settled in Dilbeek in 1775, the castle was built in 1863 by Jean-Pierre Cluysenaar. The Renaissance Revival castle was built on the ruins of a 14th-century fortification that was destroyed in 1862. One of the medieval towers, the Sint-Alenatoren, can still be seen in the park surrounding the current building and is named after Saint Alena, who lived in Dilbeek. The castle has served as the town hall of Dilbeek and housed the offices of the municipality since 1923, and was listed as a Belgian protected monument in 1990. This photograph shows the facade of De Viron Castle with the surrounding park in the foreground.

Photograph credit: Benoit Brummer

Recently featured: 
Viviparus georgianus
Lucia Chamberlain
Acorn


Archive
More featured pictures




Other areas of Wikipedia

Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements.
Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues.
Site news – Sources of news about Wikipedia and the broader Wikimedia movement.
Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
Reference desk – Ask research questions about encyclopedic topics.
Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia.

Wikipedia's sister projects

Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects:





CommonsFree media repository



MediaWikiWiki software development



Meta-WikiWikimedia project coordination



WikibooksFree textbooks and manuals



WikidataFree knowledge base



WikinewsFree-content news



WikiquoteCollection of quotations



WikisourceFree-content library



WikispeciesDirectory of species



WikiversityFree learning tools



WikivoyageFree travel guide



WiktionaryDictionary and thesaurus



Wikipedia languages


This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.





1,000,000+ articles



العربية
مصرى
Deutsch
Español
فارسی‎
Français
Italiano
Nederlands
日本語
Polski
Português
Русский
Svenska
Українська
Tiếng Việt
中文





250,000+ articles



Bahasa Indonesia
Bahasa Melayu
閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú
Български
Català
Čeština
Dansk
Esperanto
Euskara
עברית
Հայերեն
한국어
Magyar
Norsk bokmål
Română
Simple English
Srpski
Srpskohrvatski
Suomi
Türkçe
Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча





50,000+ articles



Asturianu
Azərbaycanca
বাংলা
Bosanski
کوردی
Eesti
Ελληνικά
Frysk
Gaeilge
Galego
Hrvatski
ქართული
Kurdî
Latviešu
Lietuvių
മലയാളം
Македонски
မြန်မာဘာသာ
Norsk nynorsk
ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
Shqip
Slovenčina
Slovenščina
ไทย
తెలుగు
اردو









Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=1223300368"